https://today.uic.edu/192-uic-medical-students-graduate-early
192 UIC medical students graduate early | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                192 UIC medical students graduate early  April 10, 2020   Aerial view of College of Medicine buildings in Chicago (Photo: Brad Cavanaugh)  Today, 192 medical students from the University of Illinois College of Medicine, one of the largest and most diverse medical schools in the country, will graduate early.  Among the early grads, about one-third have been matched to residency programs in Illinois.  “This will help meet the growing demand for health care workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, and the college is joining other medical schools across the country in sending our graduating students into the world early,” said Dr. Mark Rosenblatt, executive dean of the college, which is part of the University of Illinois at Chicago.  “Today, our new medical school graduates take the Hippocratic oath and, during this pandemic, they do so at a time that physicians and other health care professionals represent the best that humanity has to offer,” UIC Chancellor Michael Amiridis said. “Now, more than ever before in our lifetimes, we need their contributions ‘for the cure of their patients and the prevention of disease,’ as the oath says. I know our graduates are ready and determined to carry out this mission. All of us at UIC are very proud of them!”  “This is a very dynamic time for these graduates to be entering into the medical profession,” said Dr. Robert Barish, vice chancellor for health affairs at UIC. “We are proud of the enthusiasm that these young doctors have shown to make a difference in our communities already. Now, they are sure to directly apply what they have learned in their studies and clinical experiences to this historic time in medicine.”  In order to qualify for early
graduation, the students needed to meet all components of the college’s graduation competencies , which includes completion of all required course and
clinical rotation objectives.  The early grads represent about two-thirds of the college’s 2020 graduating class.  “Many of our students are
ready and eager to do their part. We couldn’t be prouder of them and wish them
well,” said Rosenblatt, who oversees the college’s four campuses, located in
Chicago, Peoria, Rockford and Urbana. “Our students want to help our world, and
they are finding ways and seeking opportunities to use their precious skills where
it is needed most.  “The college is committed to
doing what it can to support these efforts. We are proud to offer early
graduation and proud of the extraordinary accomplishments of our students,”
Rosenblatt said.  Students who have graduated
early will still need to work directly with their individual residency programs
to determine if they will be able to begin work early.  The early graduates will join
their classmates who will graduate on schedule in a virtual commencement ceremony
in May.     Contact   Jacqueline Carey 312-996-8277  jmcarey@uic.edu  twitter.com/JCareyUIC       Categories   Featured Academic Research , Health Sciences Colleges , Students , Top Student News   Topics College of Medicine , commencement , COVID-19          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     