https://registrar.uic.edu/student_records/enrollment-degree-verification-course-descriptions
Enrollment, Degree Verification or Course Descriptions | UIC Office of the Registrar         Transcripts  Registration  Contact us  UIC Home      Search:           Top Navigation   Current Students  Current Students   Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Former Students  Former Students   Calendars  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Faculty & Staff  Faculty & Staff   Classroom Scheduling  Faculty Self-Service  Calendars  Classes  Grades  Registration  Textbook Adoption  Student Records Policy    Other Links...  Other Links... sub-category   Prospective Students  AES Staff         Section navigation   Go to Section...  Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies      Home » Student Records » Enrollment, Degree Verification or Course Descriptions     Enrollment, Degree Verification or Course Descriptions  NOTE: Due to social distancing mandates related to COVID-19, the Office of the Registrar will be closed to walk-in traffic until further notice.  Services are available online and via e-mail at the links below.   Do you need to show that you are enrolled, were previously enrolled, or have earned a degree from the University of Illinois at Chicago?    Page Sections:   Certification Request  Alumni  Certified Copy of Diploma  Certificate Program for Teaching Verifications  Common Application: Transfer Registrar Report  Course Description  Current Students  Degree Letter  Employer, Background Screening Firm & 3RD Party Requests  Residency/Fellowship/Internship Verifications    Related Pages:   Degree Letter Request System      Certification Request  Due to social distancing mandates related to COVID-19, the Office of the Registrar will be closed to walk-in traffic until further notice. Requests may be submitted using the Online Certificate Request Form and will be emailed back to you or a third party.  * Certificate Request Form     Alumni  Student may send necessary verification forms and requests to the Office of the Registrar form completion. Per term there is a limit of 4 requests without a charge being assessed, after the 4th request there will be a $5 charge assessed for each additional form. We accept checks or money orders for payment, if paying with cash exact change is required.   By Mail  Office of the Registrar, MC 018
                University  of Illinois at Chicago
                Suite 1200 Student Services Building
                1200 West Harrison Street
                Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161    Walk-In Requests *  We are located at the Student Services Building, Office of the Registrar, Suite 1200. For parking and directions see https://admissions.uic.edu/book-visit/directions-parking-and-places-stay .   * Please Note: we do not do same day service. If you come in you can either pick up your request in 2 days or we can mail it out.     Certified copy of Diploma  The office of the Registrar will provide, upon written request, a certified copy of a diploma. A certified copy of a diploma is quality copy of the original that has been stamped as a true copy with the Registrar signature and University Seal.  Please mail or drop off (Student Service Building; Office of the Registrar; 1200 West Harrison, Chicago, IL 60607) the photocopy and complete a walk-in request form at the front desk. Certified copies of diplomas are $5.00 each.     Certificate Program for Teaching Verifications  The Council on Teacher Education (CTE) processes all requests for verification of completed teacher and school service personnel certificate programs.  Send your "verification form*" to the following address.  The University of Illinois at Chicago
                The Council on Teacher Education (CTE)
                c/o Coordinator of Certification
                1333 S. Halsted St., Suite 205 (m/c 134)
                Chicago, Illinois 60607-7133  *When making a request for verification without an institutional form, contact the CTE Office at (312) 355-0714 or by email at sryan27@uic.edu . For a letter to verify coursework beyond your degree, please contact Ana Valenta, (312) 355-0575 or by email at agarci5@uic.edu . Visit the CTE website for information about teacher certification programs.     Common Application: Transfer Registrar Report  If you are a current or past UIC student and require the completion of the Common Application Transfer Registrar Report, please forward that paper form to the Office of the Registrar, and we will complete the section of the form that pertains to our office. Additional information requested on the form will be forwarded to the appropriate office. Please be sure to include with your request the mailing address for each institution(s) to which you will to have the form(s) sent. Requests must be submitted in person or by postal mail.  Requests sent through the mail should be addressed to:  Office of the Registrar, MC 018
                University of Illinois at Chicago
                Suite 1200 Student Services Building
                1200 West Harrison Street
                Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  For walk-in requests, we are located at the Student Services Building, Office of the Registrar, Suite 1200 .  For parking and directions see https://admissions.uic.edu/book-visit/directions-parking-and-places-stay .     Course Descriptions  Students occasionally need complete descriptions of courses taken at the University of Illinois at Chicago for foreign degree validations or acceptance of credits at another institution. The fee for course descriptions is $5.00 for each request.  Please fill out, print, SIGN and send in the course description request form . We accept checks, money orders for payment.  Recent academic bulletins may be found through the Campus catalog website or at the University of Illinois main library archives section.  If the course description supplied in the academic bulletin is not sufficient, please contact the appropriate department for a specific course syllabus.     Current Student  The University of Illinois has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) to provide enrollment and degree verification information for all students in attendance or who have completed a degree.   National Student Clearinghouse 13454 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 300
                Herndon, VA 20171
                Phone: 703-742-4200
                Fax: 703-742-4239
                Email: degreeverify@studentclearinghouse.org   Current domestic and international students, with an active SSN and mailing address recorded in our system, can obtain a free enrollment verification from the National Student Clearinghouse (Enterprise ID and password authentication is required). Please note that verification of enrollment should be available approximately 5 business days after the 10th day of the semester .  Log in to Verify Enrollment    Degree Letter  Current Student and Alumni who wish to obtain a letter verifying degree awarded can submit their requests via mail, fed-ex, in-person or online ( Degree Letter Request System ). Per term there is a limit of 4 requests without a charge being assessed, after the 4th request there will be a $5 charge assessed. We accept checks or money order for payment, if paying with cash exact change is required.    U.S. Mail: Office of the Registrar, M/C 018 The University of Illinois at Chicago Suite 1200 Student Services Building 1200 West Harrison Street Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  Fed-Ex or other Delivery Services: The University of Illinois at Chicago Office of the Registrar (m/c 018) 1200 West Harrison Street Room 1200 Chicago, Illinois 60607    In Person: Student Service Building; Office of the Registrar; 1200 West Harrison  Please Note: we do  not do same day service if you come in you can either pick up your request in 2  days or we can mail it out.     Online:   Degree Letter Request System   For 5 or more requests a fee is required. Request must be submitted either by mail or in person, see above for details.         Employer, Background Screening Firm or 3rd Party  The University of Illinois at Chicago has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to provide verification of degrees and enrollment for UIC alumni.  Data is being sent to the Clearinghouse on a regular schedule, allowing employers and agencies to verify official degree information in compliance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) .  For more information, instructions, and applicable fees for the National Student Clearinghouse can be found at:    Customer Service Hours:  Mon-Thurs – 9 AM-7PM, Eastern Time  Fri – 9AM – 5PM, Eastern Time    Email  Degree Verification Inquiries  Enrollment Verification Inquiries    Phone  703-742-4200    Fax  703-742-4239    Mail National Student Clearinghouse 
        2300 Dulles Station Boulevard, Suite 300 
        Herndon, VA 20171       Residency/Fellowship/Internship Verifications  Students, state agencies of Illinois, or employers needing verification for a students’ residency/ fellowship/ internship may submit the request to the Graduate Medical Education Department.  You may contact them at 312-996-2933 or mail your request to:   Graduate Medical Education (m/c 675)
    820 S. Wood RM 100, 
    Chicago, IL 60612              Office of the Registrar, MC 018   University of Illinois at Chicago  Suite 1200 Student Services Building  1200 West Harrison Street  Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  312-996-4350   Hours of Operation   Monday - Friday, 8:30-5:00pm      UIC Office of the Registrar      Current & Former Students  UIC Faculty & Staff   Contact us!   Registrar Webform  Webmaster  Sitemap         CookieSettings    