https://innovationcenter.uic.edu
Innovation Center | University of Illinois at Chicago                        Skip to the content of this page ,  the main menu , the site search form , the site home page .        UIC Logo        Innovation Center     Search the site     Toggle Menu      Search                  UIC Logo          Innovation Center      Innovation Center   Main Menu     Eyebrow menu    UIC menu    UIC.edu    Campus Map       Search                             UIC Logo        Innovation Center       Innovation Center  Innovation is not a noun.                   We bring UIC together through interdisciplinary innovation and education.   We define innovation as bringing together existing technologies in novel ways to support unmet needs. Innovation is applied and solves problems.         Interdisciplinary Experiential Learning      Our work is collaborative and interdisciplinary. Within classes and labs, we provide tools for all UIC students to learn design thinking methods and apply them through experiential learning with corporate and university partners.         Our partners       Our partners range within a variety of industries and have unique needs. Interdisciplinary teams come together to fit the needs of our partners and solve for them through our innovation process.         Innovation is extraordinarily non-linear   The innovation process may appear very step-by-step. In reality, it’s a gritty, ambiguous, leap-of-faith activity. The process of innovation leads one to unexpected places and yields unanticipated results.         Design Thinking Process   Our design thinking process: Diverging to include a broad range of ideas, and converging to hone in on the best insight or idea to move forward into the next phase.         Non-linear Convergent and Divergent Process Diagram       What’s not shown in this diagram is the back and forth non-linear reality between and within the phases. Solution-building is a messy process, with lots of ambiguity built in along the way.         Our Offerings      Experiential learning with corporate sponsors in classes and labs at the Innovation Center gives students the opportunity to put into practice skills they learn specific to their discipline in conjunction with an interdisciplinary team.         Interdisciplinary (X) Development   IXD is a curriculum focused on interdisciplinary innovation to enable UIC students to develop novel concepts and prototype solutions. Students practice their skills in an educational hybrid: the exploratory setting of a classroom with the real-world experience of working with a corporate sponsor.         Interdisciplinary (X) Development     About I(X)D   Our classes apply innovation to a variety of problem areas—products, services, systems, and experiences. X represents any one of these problem areas, depending on our sponsor’s domain. We teach design thinking methods, collaborative working, and how to perform within ambiguous conditions.     Sponsor Benefits   Students provide fresh perspectives and are unencumbered by traditional mindsets. Multidisciplinary teams deliver human-centered views on entrenched problems, hypothesize solutions, build interventions, and test them with stakeholders. The broad range of solutions from five to six multidisciplinary teams is the point of value for our sponsors.     Student Learning Outcomes   I(X)D is unlike any other class at UIC. We bring together engineering, business, and design into multidisciplinary teams to experience the full range of problem solving. Design thinking is a structured approach that provides definition to the process of innovation. Our teaching method is experiential, and students learn by conducting user research and testing in the field.            Sponsored Labs   Our labs are what drive exploratory development at the Innovation Center. Each lab has a unique focus and uses design thinking tools and methods to develop novel solutions.        Current Labs       Go to slide 1    Go to slide 2    Go to slide 3    Go to slide 4    Go to slide 5                Go to the next slide    Go to the previous slide       The Order of St. Francis HealthCare (OSF) lab and Little Company of Mary (LCM) are comprised of over 150 primary care and specialist offices and services in Illinois and Michigan. OSF/LCM focus on both rural and urban challenges in providing care to the underserved. OSF/LCM is driven by a mission to rethink how care may be provided to those in most need and applies transformative approaches to new models of care and proactive intervention strategies.              Go to the next slide    Go to the previous slide       The Caterpillar lab supports a wide variety of innovation initiatives for Caterpillar. Broadly, CAT is interested in how to apply collected-data into a needed and valued product for their customers. Student teams have developed service-strategy solutions for quarry and aggregate sites; designed, built, and tested safety wearable products; designed methods to maximize machine usage on large highway construction sites; and developed machine learning techniques to predict machine activity with accelerometer data.              Go to the next slide    Go to the previous slide       The Medical Accelerator for Devices (MAD) lab selects proposals from medical practitioners that have high potential to solve specific medical problems. The multidisciplinary team validates the need through research and takes the solution through the design development cycle. Innovation has covered a broad spectrum of medical problems ranging from neurology to gynecology to stroke rehabilitation. Our goal is to develop proof of concept prototypes with an in-depth market analysis for further development with industry partners.              Go to the next slide    Go to the previous slide       The Department of Urology at UIC is a world leader in medical device innovation. Combining faculty from the Colleges of Medicine, Engineering, Design, and Business in UIC’s unique Innovation Center, the UIC Department of Urology creates new real-world solutions to life challenging medical problems.  Through licensing of intellectual property generated by the lab, UR* Lab is designed to generate self-supporting revenue in five years. Prototypes created by students and faculty in the Innovation Center and tested in real-world settings demonstrate to investors the significant value of this intellectual property.              Go to the next slide    Go to the previous slide       The Ophthalmic Research in Bioengineering, Innovation, and Technology (ORBIT) lab works intimately with UIC physicians and researchers within the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences to uncover hidden needs and develop appropriate solutions through device design. Influenced by the other successful medical device design labs at the Innovation Center, ORBIT lab has developed its own customized process and timeline, focusing on the generation of functional prototypes and intellectual property.              Executive Training   Through a range of executive training workshops, the Innovation Center introduces practitioners to our design thinking process and guides them through the innovation development cycle. We offer a range of executive training courses from an introduction, to application, and immersive experiences.         Executive Training     Introduction (Small)   One-day and three-day workshops that introduce participants to the design thinking process.     Application (Medium)   A six-week course that introduces participants to the design thinking process and allows them to practice new methods by applying them to needs within their organization.     Immersion (Large)   An immersive six month design thinking partnership custom designed to fulfill the objectives of the partner. This provides an in-depth, hands-on experience with the application of new methods and tools.            Executive Training Workshops                 Open Positions   The Innovation Center hires UIC graduate and undergraduate students to work in our labs that run all year round. Students typically work 15 hours per week during the academic year, and up to 35 hours per week over the summer. We hire all disciplines, and seek students who are curious, motivated, eager to work with other disciplines, and want hands-on practice in innovation methods. We work on problems involving social issues, medical devices, digital analytics, machine learning, information design, product design, and service design.    Send your CV to us at UICInnovationCenter@uic.edu.         Innovation Center Faculty and Staff      Lo'Ay
    
    Abu Salah  Clinical Associate Professor   View Profile       Matthew
    
    Alonso  Visiting Clinical Assistant Professor   View Profile       Kwabena
    
    Ankobiah  Human-Centered Designer – Project Lab   View Profile       Don
    
    Bergh  Associate Director of Labs and Educational Programs   View Profile       Kee
    
    Chan  Clinical Assistant Professor   View Profile       Anthony
    
    Felder  Orbit Lab Director, Clinical Assistant Professor   View Profile       Charles
    
    Frisbie  IXD Director, MAD Lab Director, OSF Lab Director, Urology Lab Director, Orbit Lab Director, Adjunct Lecturer   View Profile       Andrew
    
    Graham  Research Operations Specialist   View Profile       Rachel
    
    Grecky  Human-Centered Designer – Project Lab   View Profile       Mark
    
    Hallenbeck  Cat Lab Director, OSF Lab Director, 10G Lab Director, Lecturer   View Profile       Tomoko
    
    Kawanaka  Business/Administrative Associate   View Profile       Mirri
    
    Kotche  MAD Lab Director, Clinical Professor   View Profile       Yannek
    
    Leiderman  Associate Professor and Physician Surgeon   View Profile       Christian
    
    Luciano  Orbit Lab Director, Urology Lab Director, Research Assistant Professor   View Profile       Stephen
    
    Melamed  IXD Associate Director, Clinical Professor   View Profile       Kim
    
    Moon  Lecturer   View Profile       Craig
    
    Niederberger  Professor, Head of Urology and Physician Surgeon   View Profile       Peter
    
    Pfanner  Executive Director, UIC Innovation Center, Research Professor   View Profile       Mark
    
    Rosenblatt  Dean of College of Medicine, Professor and Physician Surgeon   View Profile       Daniel
    
    Schaumann  IP Specialist, Visiting Instructor   View Profile       Michael
    
    Scott  Associate Professor   View Profile       Alexandra
    
    Spiroff  Human-Centered Designer – Project Lab   View Profile       Sarah
    
    Stewart de Ramirez  OSF Lab Advisor, Associate Professor   View Profile       Susan
    
    Stirling  OSF Lab Director, Adjunct Associate Professor   View Profile       Marco
    
    Susani  Clinical Professor   View Profile       Tracie
    
    Thompson  Human-Centered Designer – Project Lab   View Profile       John
    
    Vozenilek  OSF Lab Advisor, Clinical Professor and Physician Surgeon   View Profile       Kimberlee
    
    Wilkens  Orbit Lab Director, Mad Lab Director, Urology Lab Director, Assistant Professor   View Profile       Michael
    
    Young  Urology Lab Director, Visiting Research Assistant Professor   View Profile                        UIC Logo        Innovation Center       Contact   1240 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60607  UICInnovationCenter@uic.edu        Social Media Accounts            UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UIC Safe Mobile App  UIC Today  UI Health  Veterans Affairs        Powered by Red 2.38.0  © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield      Cookie Settings                 