https://acm.cs.uic.edu/bylaws
ACM Constitution | ACM@UIC  Skip to main content         Toggle navigation              Association for Computing Machinery Student Chapter at the University of Illinois at Chicago          Main navigation    Home                                       Breadcrumb    Home >                Username     Password         Reset your password    Tools    Not a member? Click here!      ACM Menu    About    Officers    ACM Constitution    Office Policies    Members      SIGs - Active    SIG AI    SIG AlgoTrading    SIG BlockChain    SIG Game    SIG Math Coding    SIG SysAdmin    SIG Windows      SIGs - Defunct    SIG App    SIG Android    SIG Build    SIG Compete    SIG Security    SIG Code    SIG MedTech    SIG Sudo    SIG HCI    SIG Micro    SIG UX    LUG Web    SIG Pwn    SIG Code Review    SIG Open              ACM Constitution         Constitution of the Association for Computing
Machinery   Monday 20 th April, 2015   Contents   1 Name   2 Purpose   3 Membership   3.1 Dues   4 ACM Council   4.1 The Officers   4.1.1 President   4.1.2 Vice President   4.1.3 Treasurer   4.1.4 Officer Elections   4.1.5 Officer Replacements   4.1.6 Impeachment Process   4.2 Secretaries   4.2.1 Task Pool   4.2.2 Member Vote of No Confidence   4.3 SIG Leaders   4.4 Faculty Adviser   4.4.1 Removing the Faculty Adviser   4.5 Past President   4.6 Council Meetings   5 Referendums   6 Decisions   6.1 Enacting a Decision   7 Special Interest Groups   7.1 Starting a Special Interest Group   8 Amendments   9 The Judicial Council   10 Dissolution    1  Name  This organization shall be called the Association for Computing Machinery. In this document, references to this organization will be made as ACM. References to the parent
organization will be made as National ACM. References to this University will be made as UIC or
simply the University.  2  Purpose  The ACM is organized and will be operated for educational and scientific purposes and, in
furtherance thereof, specific objectives are:  To promote an increased knowledge of the science, design, development, construction,
      language, and applications of modern computing machinery.  To promote a greater interest in computing machinery and its applications.  To   promote   social   and   professional   development   by   providing   a   means   of
      communication between persons having interest in computing machinery.  Additional objectives may be added. However, no addition may contradict the main objectives as
stated above.  3  Membership  Membership in ACM is limited to UIC students, faculty, and staff. ACM conforms to the
policies of the University of Illinois Board of Trustees regarding nondiscrimination on
the basis of gender, race, religion, physical disability, sexual orientation, or national
origin. A majority vote of a quorum of 51% of the ACM Council may cause a student to be considered to
be in poor standing. A student may also be considered in poor standing by a side effect of a
Decision (section 6) made by the ACM Council. The Faculty Advisor has the power to override a
Council vote to place a student in poor standing. A member of ACM not in good standing may not vote on any matter, hold any position in the
ACM Council, nor lead a SIG.  3.1  Dues  Membership dues are to be paid at the start of each fall semester by each member of the ACM. If a
member pays dues then that member is not required to pay any more dues if the value of dues rises
before the next payment is due nor is that member entitled to a refund of the difference should
dues be lowered. Dues must be assessed annually by the Officers to see if any changes are needed based on the
financial situation of the ACM. A change in the value of dues owed cannot effect the semester in which the change
takes place. Any change in dues does not take place until the semester following the
change. The amount in dues owed by each member may be changed by a unanimous decision between the
President, Treasurer, and the Faculty Adviser. Any member who has not paid all dues owed by the end of the third week of the fall semester is
considered in poor standing until the dues are paid. Any member of the ACM who is a member of National ACM and provides proof to
that effect shall be exempt from paying dues for the ACM. If at anytime said National
ACM membership should expire then the member must renew national membership
within one week or else become a member in poor standing until either paying dues to
the ACM or renewing membership with National ACM and producing proof of this
renewal.  4  ACM Council  The main governing body of the ACM shall be the ACM Council. The ACM Council consists of
the three elected Officers, a set of appointed Secretaries, a representative from each SIG, the
immediate past ACM President, and the ACM’s Faculty Adviser. No single person may hold more than one position on the council.  4.1  The Officers  At the head of the ACM Council are the three elected officers: President, Vice President, and
Treasurer. The Officers together represent the official voice and position of the ACM to the

University, the members, and outside organizations. No member may elected to more than two consecutive officer positions.  4.1.1  President  The President is the lead officer and thus the head of the entire ACM. It is the job of the president
to have a vision for the ACM which is based on the platform on which the President was elected
and to take steps to enact this vision. The President has final say in all officer decisions as described in section 6.1 and has the
responsibility of wisely wielding that power by staying informed of the goings on in
the ACM and the changes of view of the members and enacting Decisions (section 6)
accordingly. The President must also aid the Treasurer in creating an annual budget on the timeline as
described in section 4.1.3 paragraph 2. The President has the power to make purchases on behalf of the ACM so long as the purchase has
been approved using the Decisions procedure described in section 6. The President and Treasurer are responsible for submitting the required Annual Report to
National ACM.  4.1.2  Vice President  The Vice President is second in command of the ACM. It is the responsibility of the Vice President
to aid the President in leading the ACM and enacting Decisions (section 6) in the interest of the
members of the ACM. It shall also be the responsibility of the Vice President to maintain the official Task Pool as
described by section 4.2.1 and track that Tasks are being completed.  4.1.3  Treasurer  The Treasurer is responsible for tracking and maintaining the budget of the ACM. Annually after being elected and before July 1 the Treasurer, with the assistance of the
President and with any necessary input from the rest of the ACM Council, must prepare a
budget for the ACM and submit the relevant portions to the Department of Computer
Science. The Treasurer has the power to make purchases on behalf of the ACM so long as the purchase has
been approved using the Decisions procedure described in section 6. The President and Treasurer are responsible for submitting the required Annual Report to
National ACM.  4.1.4  Officer Elections  There shall be an annual election meeting held within two weeks of the anniversary of the previous
years election meeting. The meeting may be held earlier if their is some requirement
or outside pressure from the University and a Decision is made as laid out in section
6. The date of the meeting should be set by the start of the semester in which the election shall take
place and there must be at least one announcement about the election meeting no sooner than one
month before the election meeting. Sign ups to run for positions should be opened to members no later than 2 weeks before the
election meeting. In order to be a candidate in elections one must be a student at the University, a member of the
ACM in good standing, a member of National ACM, and sign up in advance of the election
meeting using the officially supplied sign up method. For an election to take place there must be a quorum of at least 25 members or 25% of the
members, whichever is smaller. If quorum is not met the meeting must be rescheduled to a date
within a week that can be agreed upon by a plurality of those present. If this new meeting does not
have quorum but has at least 80% of the people whom attended the previous meeting present then
the election may take place. The election for each position will take place during the election meeting in the following order:
President, Vice President, Treasurer. At the election meeting all candidates who registered in advance for each position should, before
voting, be given an equally allotted time frame to present their platform. Following
presentations all candidates should be moved out of earshot, submitting their votes
before leaving, for group discussion about the candidates. After discussion voting may
commence. The winner of an election must receive a plurality of the votes in order to win.  4.1.5  Officer Replacements  If the President is no longer capable of fulfilling the duties of the office of President then the Vice
President shall take over the office of President and nominate a new Vice President. This new Vice
President must be approved by a majority vote of the ACM Council with a quorum of 50% of the
council. If the Vice President is no longer capable of fulfilling the duties of the office of Vice
President then the President shall nominate a new Vice President. This new Vice President
must be approved by a majority vote of the ACM Council with a quorum of 50% of the
council. If the Treasurer is no longer capable of fulfilling the duties of the office of Treasurer then the
President shall nominate a new Treasurer. This new Treasurer must be approved by a majority
vote of the ACM Council with a quorum of 50% of the council. Any officer replacement can be overridden by any member who produces a petition with the
signatures of at least 10 members or 10% of the membership, whichever is smaller, for the ACM
Council. The action nullifies the appointment and triggers standard election procedure for that
position as described by section 4.1.4 with the election meeting taking place no sooner than one
week from the date of the petition’s submission and notification of the meeting being sent out
within 12 hours of the meeting being scheduled.  4.1.6  Impeachment Process  To initiate the impeachment process a member must present the Council with a petition to remove
an Officer from the Officer’s position containing the signatures of at least 20% of the
members. An agenda item must be added to the ACM Council meeting immediately following
the submission of the petition to discuss the impeachment giving members on both
sides the opportunity to present their case. The voting begins after this meeting takes
place. The vote will be a Referendums as described in section 5 with the following addendums:  At least 50% of members must vote.  The voting will take place over the course of 7 weekdays.  The decision to impeach must receive a majority of the votes.  The Officer being impeached may not be the Officer in charge of collecting votes.   4.2  Secretaries  Secretary positions in the ACM exist to carry out and help enforce Decisions (section
6) made by the ACM Council as well as assist in the day to day management of the
organization. Officers may grant a Secretary position to an interested member in good standing of the
organization at any time. In order for this Secretary to be appointed the individual
must be willing to accept one or more of the official Tasks defined in the official Task
Pool. All Tasks accepted by the new Secretary will become that Secretary’s responsibility and said
Secretary will be held accountable for them being carried out and for regularly updating the ACM
Council on actions taken in relation to said Tasks. Each Secretary position should be granted a name by the Officers that is relevant to the Tasks
assigned to that Secretary. As Tasks are assigned and unassigned the name may be changed by the
Officers.  4.2.1  Task Pool  The official Task Pool is a list of responsibilities, duties, and other such tasks that are
necessary for the management of the ACM or to carry out some Decision (section 6) of the
ACM. The Task Pool must be a publicly accessible document which is to be maintained by the Vice
President. Tasks can be added to and removed from the list by a Decision (section 6) made by the Officers.
Except in the case where a task has already been assigned to a Secretary. If a task has already
been assigned to a Secretary the task, and if it is the only task assigned to that Secretary then the
Secretary position itself, can only be removed by a plurality vote of a quorum of 50% of the ACM
Council.  4.2.2  Member Vote of No Confidence  Should a member become dissatisfied with the service of one or more Secretaries that member
may present to the ACM Council a petition containing signatures from 10 members
or 10% of the members, whichever is smaller. This triggers the start of a Vote of No
Confidence. This vote shall be conducted as a Referendum as described in section 5.  4.3  SIG Leaders  SIGs (Section 7) are an integral part of the ACM’s mission. To help SIGs to thrive in the ACM
each SIG is granted a vote on the ACM Council. This is accomplished by having each
SIG send a person or group to represent its vote on the Council in the form of a SIG
Leader. A SIG Leader should advise the rest of the council on policies beneficial to the represented SIG,
update the Council at each Council Meeting on the activities of the SIG, and to provide a
communication channel between the ACM Council and the SIGs. Each Official SIG may send as many representatives to the Council as it wants, but each Official
SIG only gets one vote on the Council. There must be at least one representative from each Official
SIG sent to be a representative on the ACM Council. The representative should be the Leader or Leaders in charge of the SIG that is being represented
except in the case where the Leader or Leaders are already members of the council in which case
the SIG must send at least one representative from among the members of the SIG who is not on
the Council. SIG Leaders must be members in good standing of the ACM.  4.4  Faculty Adviser  The Faculty Adviser exists to create a link between the ACM and the Department of Computer
Science as well as to provide a year to year continuity in the organization for the purposes of
advising the ACM Council. The Faculty Adviser must be a full time faculty member in the Department of Computer
Science. The Faculty Adviser must have an ACM Professional Membership with National ACM. The Faculty Adviser is considered a member in good standing of the organization however is
exempt from paying dues. The Faculty Adviser has the power to make purchases on behalf of the ACM so long as the
purchase has been approved using the Decisions procedure described in section 6 and should assist
in the monitoring of the ACM’s finances and ensuring that necessary payments are
made. The Faculty Adviser should help to ensure that the ACM is operating within University rules and
operating up to University standards. The Faculty Adviser shall be appointed by a Decision (section 6) of the ACM Council from a
group of interested candidates. The Faculty Adviser remains the Faculty Adviser until resigning or
successfully removed by the process described by 4.4.1.  4.4.1  Removing the Faculty Adviser  The Faculty Adviser can only be removed by a vote of the members that is initiated by a
member submitting a petition containing signatures of 20% of the members to the ACM
Council. An agenda item must be added to the ACM Council meeting immediately following
the submission of the petition to discuss the impeachment giving members on both
sides the opportunity to present their case. The voting begins after this meeting takes
place. The vote to remove shall be a Referendum as described in section 5 with the following
addendums:  At least 50% of members must vote.  The voting will take place over the course of 7 weekdays.  The decision to impeach must receive a majority of the votes.   4.5  Past President  The Past President is the most recent ACM President before the current one who was not removed
from office by impeachment nor by being deemed incapable to fulfill the duties of the
office. The position of Past President exists to advise the Council and to provided some continuity and
assistance with knowledge from previous years. The Past President is considered a member in good standing of the organization even if no longer a
student at the University. If the Past President is still a student then dues must be paid the sames
as for all members.  4.6  Council Meetings  A meeting of the ACM Council must be held at least once every two weeks during the fall and
spring semesters. Any voting matters or petition presentations must be made available in the form of
a meeting agenda at least 24 hours before the next meeting. Any items brought up
less than 24 hours before the meeting must be added to the agenda for the following
meeting. Each agenda item must be given a non-zero amount of consideration during the
Meeting. Any Officer may call a meeting of the ACM Council with at least 72 hours notice. Any member may call a meeting of the Council with at least one weeks notice. It is an expectation that all Council members make an effort to attend each Council meeting
though it is not required. Council meetings are open to all members of the ACM. All those present at the meeting must be given equal opportunity to give input on each agenda
item. No ACM Council meeting may take place without at least one of the Officers. The ACM President will conduct all Council meetings. In the absence of the President the Vice
President will conduct the meeting. In the absence of both the President and Vice President, the
Treasurer will conduct the meeting.  5  Referendums  A referendum is a predefined process which may be used when a vote about a specific issue is
needed from the general body of the ACM. It is not required, but is referenced throughout this
document and may be useful. Only members of the ACM in good standing may vote in a Referendum by submitting their ballot
during a poll. Members must be given at least three weekdays notice before the start of a vote. Polls must be open at least five weekdays. The polls must be open for at least two hours every voting day. One of these hours must be
between 9:00 and 16:00 and the other must be between 16:00 and 18:00. The ballots must be stored in a secure location inside a locked ballot box. The only person who
may have a key to this box is the Faculty Adviser to the ACM. An officer will, without looking at the ballot, operate the ballot box and verify that each voter is in
fact a member of the ACM before their submission. The officer in charge must establish hours during which the Officer will be available to collect
ballots each voting day. To facilitate different schedules more than one officer may be in charge of collecting
votes. Each member’s ballot must be placed in the ballot box by the voter and no one else. At least 25 members or 25% of members, whichever is smaller, must vote in order for the vote to
count otherwise the vote is canceled as if it had never occurred. In order to win the vote an option must receive a plurality of the votes.  6  Decisions  The ACM Council has the power to enact policies or rules for the organization in the form of
Decisions. These Decisions exist to give the Council the ability to enact legislation to help manage, sustain,
and adapt the ACM in a way that is best for members. All actions decided on by the Council must come in the form of a Decision. The ACM Council has the power to pass a Decision on all matters not restricted by this
document. Each Decision must be added to the agenda of a Council Meeting at least 24 hours before the
meeting. Any member of the ACM may present a Decision for consideration by the ACM council.  6.1  Enacting a Decision  The power to enact Decisions lies primarily with the Officers of the ACM. To enact a Decision it must pass a majority vote of all the Officers. The President may veto any Decision passed by the Officers. The ACM Council may veto any Decision made by the Officers. The veto can only be passed by a
majority vote in a quorum composed of at least 50% of the ACM Council. A veto passed in this
way cannot be overridden or nullified by another Decision of the Officers; it can only be overridden
by a vote of the Council as described above or by a vote of the Members as described in this
section below in paragraph 5. The members of the ACM may veto a Decision of the ACM Council or the Officers. To do this a
member must present the ACM Council with a petition containing at least 10 members’ signatures
or the signatures of 10% of the members, whichever is smaller. The decision will then be settled by
a Referendum as described in section 5.  7  Special Interest Groups  Special Interest Groups (SIGs) exist to provide a way for the ACM to help students learn about,
discuss, or collaborate on relevant topics concerning the ACM’s purpose as stated in section
2. Any member of the ACM in good standing may start a SIG. SIGs must hold meetings at least once every two weeks. Failure to hold these meetings shall be
considered misconduct on behalf of the SIG and gives the Council cause for the SIG’s dissolution. SIGs are not expected to hold meetings during any of the summer semesters nor any day that the
University is not holding classes. The ACM Council may pass a Decision to dissolve a SIG should they have cause due to
misconduct on the part of a SIG. The nature of this misconduct is left to the discretion of the
ACM Council.  7.1  Starting a Special Interest Group  Any member of ACM in good standing may start a SIG. In order to start a SIG one must first submit a document to the ACM Council detailing the
name of the SIG, the purpose of the SIG, and laying out a system for deciding who
will be the SIG representatives on the ACM Council as well as how to decide what
the SIG’s vote is for matters on the Council. After submitting this paperwork a SIG
becomes an Unofficial SIG with the submitter(s) of the paperwork as the SIG Leader by
default. An Unofficial SIG becomes an Official SIG immediately after it holds at least one meeting with
attendees present who are not the default SIG Leader(s) and goes through the process laid out in
the SIG’s defining paperwork to decide on its Leader(s).  8  Amendments  Amendments to this document may be proposed by any member who submits a petition to the
ACM Council containing at least 10 signatures or the signatures of at least 10% of the members of
the ACM, whichever is smaller. After the petition is submitted this will trigger a Referendum as described in section 5 with the
following addendums:  Voting will take place over the course of 10 weekdays.  For the vote to count at least 25% of current members must cast a ballot.   9  The Judicial Council  The power to decide if Decisions (section 6) are valid under this document lies with a council made
up of the Faculty Adviser, Past President, and current ACM President. This council will be called
the Judicial Council. Any member in the organization may contact any of the members of the Judicial Council to call
into question any Decision (section 6) made by the ACM Council. By a unanimous vote of the Judicial Council, they may nullify any Decision (section 6) made on
the grounds that it is unconstitutional. Judicial Council meetings are open to all members of the ACM. All those present at the meeting must be given equal opportunity to give input on each Decision
being discussed.  10  Dissolution  In the event of the dissolution of the ACM, all of the assets of the ACM will be transferred to the
National ACM.   acm-constitution.pdf                  Search         ACM Tools    Calendar    Mailing List Signup    UIC Mega Pathfinder    UIC Linux Guides    ACM Wiki    ACM IRC    ACM Mail    ACM Git Project Hosting    Public Git Projects      Committees    Program Committee    Publicity Committee    Membership Committee    Ways and Means Committee    Flourish! Committee      Events    ACM Lan Party    Flourish        UIC Linux Users Group   Join us on Social Media                                                     Copyright Association for Computing Machinary at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2018 · All rights reserved             