https://otm.uic.edu/about/general-faqs
General FAQs | Office of Technology Management | University of Illinois at Chicago                          Skip to the content of this page ,  the main menu , the secondary menu , the site search form , the site home page .        UIC Logo        Office of Technology Management     Search the site     Toggle Menu      Search                  UIC Logo          Office of Technology Management      Office of Technology Management   Main Menu    UIC Community    Expand UIC Community menu           Submit Your Idea!    Chancellor’s Translational Research Initiative (CTRI)    Inventor of the Year    Ownership Guidelines    How to Disclose    What Happens Next?         Industry    Expand Industry menu           Available Technologies    Technology Portfolio    NDAs    MTAs & SRAs    DEEP™ Ready-to-sign License    Licensing FAQs         Innovation Toolkit    Expand Innovation Toolkit menu           Innovation Handbooks    Innovation Ecosystem    Awards & Funding Opportunities    Education Series         About    Expand About menu           Impact Report FY 2019    Contact Us    Staff    Student Development    News    Events    General FAQs          Eyebrow menu    UIC menu    UIC.edu    Campus Map       Search                 View Menu  Down arrow icon            Breadcrumbs   Office of Technology Management    About    General FAQs        General FAQs       Technology Transfer        Q: Can I still publish my findings?     Yes, findings can still be published, and
disclosure to your OTM does not alter your
publication timetable. However, because
publishing can affect the ability to obtain
a patent, it is best to submit a disclosure prior
to publishing or communicating your findings
in a public forum.         Q: When should I submit a disclosure?     It is best if inventors submit a disclosure
between eight and 12 weeks before
publication so that, if necessary, actions can
be taken to protect both U.S. and foreign
rights. Once publicly disclosed, an invention
may not be patentable. To be safe, inform your
OTM of any imminent or prior presentations
that include the IP.         Q: What is my role in the screening process?     Inventors typically meet with OTM staff
to discuss the invention and clarify aspects
of the disclosure. Once a decision is made on
whether to pursue patenting, the inventor will
be contacted to discuss the outcome.         Q: What is my role in patenting?     Inventors and OTM professionals speak
with the patent attorney during the patenting
process. Also, inventors will need to
review drafts of documents, as well as sign
assignments and other legal documentation.
OTM will guide the inventors during the process.         Q: What is my role in marketing?     Inventors are encouraged to work closely with
their technology manager to market their
invention. Inventors are often quite involved in
the early stages of recruiting commercial partners
and licensees, as the inventor’s expertise is often
critically important. This involvement includes
exchanging information and materials, and
sometimes results in further sponsored research
(dubbed pre-licensing agreements). Inventors
are often involved in crafting the details of such
pre-licensing agreements.         Q: What is my role in licensing?     Licensing is the primary function of the OTMs,
and inventors will be informed of progress.
Inventors often are closely connected to others in their field and may be consulted by their OTM on the business terms of the license. Further, the inventor’s role in licensing is an
extension of their role in marketing since their
expertise is often critically important to transfer the technology and related know-how to the licensee. The University license places only nominal obligations on the part of the inventor to assist in the transfer of the licensed technology. When more than minimal time and effort is necessary, the licensee will negotiate a separate consulting arrangement with the inventor.         Q: What effect does a license have on my
ability to do research?     You can still continue research using a licensed
invention, even if it is exclusively licensed.
The University will always retain the right to
use licensed inventions in academic research
and teaching.         Q: What if an industry partner funded my research and invention?     Your OTM will review the terms of the contract,
send a copy of the disclosure to the company,
determine the company’s interest, and take
action based on the company’s decision.         Start-Up        Q: What is a start-up company?     A start-up company is a new business entity
created to market a specific invention. It is
an alternative to licensing an invention to
another already existing company.         Q: What role does the inventor play in the
start-up company?     The inventor usually serves as a consultant or
adviser to the new company. That role may
change as the company develops. However,
much more time is required early in the
process of establishing the company.         Q: What support does the University
provide to start-ups?     The University provides resources and
services that make start-up formation
easier, such as IllinoisVENTURES and
incubation facilities. University licenses to start-ups are
structured so as not to overburden the
company financially during the first years.         Federal Agencies participating in STTR        Q: What is the minimum percentage of
research that can be conducted by the
small firm and institution receiving an
STTR award?     Small business must perform at least 40
percent of the work, and research institutions
must perform at least 30 percent.         Q: When are the proposal deadlines?     Information on solicitations and
proposal deadlines can be found at
http://www.zyn.com/sbir/         Open Source        Q: What is the Open Source?     In the software community, Open Source is a
forum in which multiple unaffiliated parties
have access to the source code of a software
program for the purposes of collaborative
development. People who participate in
the Open Source believe that more scrutiny
brings greater reliability and that software
is an evolving entity that can achieve its
fullest potential without the restrictions of
commercial sale.         Q: What’s my role in open source licensing?     As with decisions for publication, the faculty
or head of the research program makes the
recommendation for open source dissemination.
Often, the decision to release code into the
open source is made early in the software
development process: as a condition of the
funding, as a requirement of participation in
the software community, or as a consequence
of incorporating third party code that requires
placement in the open source. When software is placed in the Open Source,
it is usually through the University of Illinois
or NCSA Open Source License. This license
places minimal restrictions on use, thereby
maximizing flexibility of use and dissemination.
The University of Illinois license can be
viewed at http://www.opensource/licenses/
UoI-NCSA.php.          Call to action        Edit icon         Submit Your Idea!        Phone icon        Contact Us             About    Back to main content           Impact Report FY 2019    Contact Us    Staff    Student Development    News    Events    General FAQs                  UIC Logo        Office of Technology Management         Disclose    Submit Your Idea!    What Happens Next?    UIC Pitch Series      Contact Us    Let's Talk    Staff      Technologies    Technology Portfolio    Licensing FAQs        button    Disclosure Form    Let's Talk    News & Events         Contact   1853 West Polk Street, Suite 446, Chicago, IL 60612  Phone: (312) 996-7018  Fax: (312) 996-1995  otm@uic.edu        Social Media Accounts    Twitter             UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UIC Safe Mobile App  UIC Today  UI Health  Veterans Affairs        Powered by Red 2.38.0  © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield      Cookie Settings                 