https://cloudsweeper.cs.uic.edu
Home | Cloudsweeper     Cloudsweeper          Cloudsweeper email tools  Safeguarding your cloud based storage.       Account theft audit    Cleartext password audit    Decrypt messages        Cloudsweeper is a research project being conducted by Peter Snyder and Chris Kanich at the
University of Illinois at Chicago. We provide tools to help users
understand and control their risks online while also conducting
research to better understand those risks at a systemic level. At
this site, you can both use these tools as well as participate in the
research project. Please see our FAQ for more info.  Account theft audit  Securing your email account is incredibly important. What are the
chances that sensitive information are stored in the email account you
use every day? If you were to lose your phone, leave your computer logged in,
or have your account hacked, the possible harm might extend far further than you
expect.  Our account theft audit tool can help you
get a handle on just how much a cybercriminal could access were they to take over
your email account. This tool will scan your account and give you a visualization
of how many of your accounts hackers could take over if they got access to your
email account. The list might surprise you! Cleartext password audit  Passwords are the primary authentication mechanism in use on the web.
Your email account, social networking account, online banking
account, and no doubt several others all rely on a password to
allow you access. Combined with the fact that people tend to re-use
passwords, emails like this become a severe security risk:  Your new blog has been successfully set up. You can log in with the following information: Username: chrisk Password: hunter3   As part of an academic study that investigates the intersection between
security and long-term cloud-based data storage, we have developed a tool
to help users identify and redact private information. By using this tool,
you can preserve the useful but non-sensitive text of an email like that
pictured above while removing the private information. After using
our tool, the same email will still be in your archive, but will
have been modified to appear like the one below. We'll give you a
code to print and store in a safe place just in case you need to
recover that information in the future.  Your new blog has been successfully set up. You can log in with the following information: Username: chrisk Password: [wImYDaM5DBJZqgLrSYekjQ== ZmwDVbzid7+7LQ6R3uDj+xPnDt1nuxEFDJTxhKPh5T0=]  This process protects you as a user in the case of an
attacker who gains access to your account, an attacker who can eavesdrop on
your Internet session while reading email, or even someone who borrows your
laptop while you aren’t looking and starts digging around.  Using these tools should take between three and 30 minutes. The tool will
request access to your email account, and then present to you what we
think are private pieces of information that you might not want to keep
around in your email account (like the example above). We will then allow
you to either encrypt or permanently remove all plaintext passwords stored
in your account, making it more safe in the event of an account
compromise. We are collecting non-personal data about some
peoples' use of this tool as part of our research project. You may
be asked to participate in this study. If you consent to
participate in the study, we will only collect non-personal
information about the amount and type of information found and
redacted, and NEVER keep any of your personally identifiable
information.            Privacy Policy • Frequently Asked Questions      UIC BITSLab       