https://compbio.cs.uic.edu/people.html
UIC: Laboratory for Computational Population Biology      Laboratory for Computational Population Biology  Department of Computer Science  University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC)         Home  Projects  Publications  Software  People     Contact   Facebook Page                       People     Lab     The Lab   Alumni   Collaborators       Now| Then     Director   Dr. Tanya Y. Berger-Wolf     PostDocs     Janet Backs        Ph.D. Students  MS. Students     Aynaz Taheri  Chainarong Amornbunchornvej  Ivan Brugere  Shelby Heinecke  Vena Jia Li     Ashwin Bansod  Krutarth Joshi  Sreejith Menon  Umberto Di Fabrizio      Undergraduates    Kathleen Mancillas Robert Hull          Alumni        PhD alums  Marco Maggioni ,
															      Ph.D. October 2015  Thesis: Convex Optimization on GPUs   R&D Senior Developer presso Citadel LLC    Habiba ,
															      Ph.D. May 2013  Thesis: Finding critical individuals for diffusion in dynamic population networks  University of Konstanz, Postdoctoral Researcher     Chayant Tantipathananandh ,
                                                                    Ph.D. May 2013  Thesis: Detecting and Tracking Communities in Social Networks  Google, Software Engineer     Rajmonda Sulo Caceres ,
                                                                    Ph.D. August 2012  Thesis: Temporal Scale of Dynamic Networks  MIT Lincoln Lab, Technical Staff     Mayank Lahiri ,
                                                                    Ph.D. May 2011  Thesis: Measuring and mining dynamic networks  Google, Software Engineer     Arun Maiya ,
                                                                    Ph.D. May 2011  Thesis: Sampling and Inference in Complex Networks  Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Research Staff Member    Saad Sheikh , Ph.D. December 2009  Thesis: Combinatorial Methods for Sibling Reconstruction  Bing    MS alums   Benedetto Vitale ,
                                                                    M.S. May 2016  Thesis: Inferring High Resolution Terrain, Vegetation, and Lines of Sight Models from Point Cloud Data      Ettore Randazzo ,
                                                                    M.S. May 2016  Thesis: Inferring Interaction Network from Sensor Data  Software Engineer at Google     Alessandro Oddone ,
                                                                    M.S. December 2015  Thesis: A Mobile Application for the Image Based Ecological Information System  Software Engineer at BMW Technology Corporation     Islam Ismailov ,
                                                                    M.S. October 2012  Thesis: Visual Object Detection For Animal Behavior Research  Facebook, Software Engineer    Alan Perez-Rathke , M.S. May 2011  Thesis: Parallel, Error-Tolerant Sibling Reconstruction for Wild Populations Using Microsatellite Markers  UIC MD Program    Priya Govindan , M.S. May 2009  Thesis: Inferring Network Structure Using Maximum Likelihood Approach  Rutgers University PhD Program   Vinodh Periyasamy, M.S. May 2008  Project: Dynamic Graph Generator: Generic graph simulator for dynamic network  Goldman Sachs    Satya Lahari Putrevu , M.S. December 2007  Project: Sibling Reconstruction Method Validation   Microsoft   Srikant Vemuri, M.S. December 2007  Project: Dynamic Network Visualization Tool  Terra Matrix Media   Andrea Franchescini, M.S. May 2007  Thesis: A software architecture for the analysis of genomic protein family and domain controlled annotations            Ugrad alums      Ashley Riley  Heba Basio  Joshua Herman  Nathan Lavy  Ryan Schubert  Nick Shaskevich  Anthony Roy     Collaborators     Daniel I. Rubenstein Princeton University  Chuck Stewart Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Jason Holmberg WildMe.org   Brian Ziebart University of Illinois at Chicago  Mergaret Crofoot University of California, Davis   Iain D. Couzin Max Planck Institute  Tom Moher University of Illinois at Chicago  Joel Brown University of Illinois at Chicago  Damien Farine Max Planck institute David Pappano Time, Inc  Mary V. Ashley University of Illinois at Chicago   Bhaskar DasGupta University of Illinois at Chicago   W. Art Chaovalitwongse Rutgers University   Ashfaq A. Khokhar Illinois Institute of Technology  Leilah Lyons University of Illinois at Chicago  Robin Kravets University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  Robert Kenyon University of Illinois at Chicago  Daniel Llano University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign      © 2007 University of Illinois at Chicago . All rights reserved.  Design by NodeThirtyThree Design  