https://compbio.cs.uic.edu/labmeetings.html
UIC: Laboratory for Computational Population Biology      Laboratory for Computational Population Biology  Department of Computer Science  University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC)         Home  Projects  People  Publications  Software  Collaborators  News  Lab Meetings  Contact        Lab Meetings   Information regarding our weekly lab meetings and scheduled presentations.     Reading list for Spring 2011 lab meetings  The Total s-Energy of a Multiagent System   Reading list for Fall 2010 lab meetings   A Sober Look at Clustering Stability.  Towards a Statistical Theory of Clustering.  Approximate Clustering without the Approximation.  On the Approximability of Influence in Social Networks.  MANIPULATION OF PAGERANK AND COLLECTIVE HIDDEN MARKOV MODELS.  MINING INTERESTING SUBGRAPHS BY OUTPUT SPACE SAMPLING.  Making Pattern Mining Useful. Exponential Random graph models. * An Introduction to Exponential Random Graph (p*) Models for Social Networks * New specifications for exponential random graph models * Small and Other Worlds: Global network structures from local processes        Coming Lab meetings   Past Lab meetings (in reverse chronological order)   September 21, 2011  Presenter: Igal Vainer  What: Emerging Networks - from Simple to Complex.  Abstract: Understanding processes guiding emergence of natural
networks is a complex and challenging task. Yet, we believe
most complex processes are guided by simple interactions operating
with some degree of non-determinism on extremely large
volumes of basic system entities. Combined together, operations
on large volumes and non-determinism amplify groups’ properties
within the system. Our goal is to create a simple modeling
framework providing capabilities to simulate and analyze these
evolutionary properties of emerging groups. This paper proposes
a model extending basic concepts of marked graphs in Petri nets
and discussing possible interpretations of resulting features.   July 22, 2011  Presenter: Catia Pesquita  What: Auxesia: semi-automated ontology extension.  Abstract: Biomedical ontologies are crucial for bridging the gap between biomedical
data and biomedical knowledge, since they provide a structured and
unambiguous model of the concepts needed to understand a domain.
Developing and maintaining a biomedical ontology is a time and
effort-consuming task, given the dynamic and expanding nature of
biomedical knowledge. This is a relevant issue for very large ontologies
which cover a broad domain, for smaller ontologies maintained by a small
team and also for domains where being able to perform quick updates is
critical (e.g. epidemiology).
To help minimize this effort, we can capitalize on ontology engineering
methods, such as ontology learning and ontology matching, to provide new
candidate concepts for a biomedical ontology, and thus extend it.
I am developing a methodology for semi-automated ontology extension,
called Auxesia, which aims at addressing two of the biggest issues when
working with biomedical ontologies: their size and the complexity of their
terminology. To cope with these Auxesia explores two main sources of
knowledge, other biomedical ontologies and scientific publications, by
applying on one hand ontology matching and on the other text mining. It
also incorporates a novel methodology for predicting the areas of the
ontology which would benefit the most from extension, thereby focusing the
extension effort.    January 20, 2011  Undergrad Open House.  Discussion:  The Total s-Energy of a Multiagent System  Author: Bernard Chazelle .    November 09, 2010   Presenter:  Habiba   Topic: Exponential random graph model (ERGM)  References: * An Introduction to Exponential Random Graph (p*) Models for Social Networks * New specifications for exponential random graph models * Small and Other Worlds: Global network structures from local processes    October 19, 2010   Presenter:  Rajmonda Sulo   Paper: Chapter 3: Making Pattern Mining Useful  Authors: Jilles Vreeken   October 12, 2010   Presenter:  Habiba   Paper: Virus Propagation on Time-Varying Networks: Theory and Immunization Algorithms  Authors: B. Aditya Prakash ,Hanghang Tong, Nicholas Valler, Michalis Faloutsos, Christos Faloutsos .   October 05, 2010   Presenter:  Rajmonda Sulo   Paper:  A Sober Look at Clustering Stability.  Authors: Shai Ben-David , Ulrike von Luxburg , and David Pal   September 28, 2010   Christine Cheng from University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee is going to be visiting us for the Fall 2010 semester. She will give an overview of her research and will get to know everybody.  August 31, 2009   Presenter:  Habiba   Paper:  Affiliation Networks   Authors: Silvio Lattanzi, and D. Sivakumar.    May 25, 2009   Presenter:  Habiba   Paper: Kronecker graphs: an approach to modeling networks  Authors: Jure Leskovec , Deepayan Chakrabarti , Jon Kleinberg , Christos Faloutsos , Zoubin Gharamani .    May 08, 2009   Presenter: Mayank Lahiri   What: A Unified Approach to Periodic Pattern Mining in Discrete,
Sequential Data  Author:  Mayank Lahiri .   April 30, 2009   Presenter: Paul Varkey  What: What I believe about what you believe about what I believe, ad infinitum, and why it matters?    April 23, 2009   Presenter:  Saad Sheikh   Paper: Combinatorial problems in Kinship Analysis  Author:  Saad Sheikh .    April 02, 2009   Presenter: Paul Varkey  What: Common knowledge, and lack thereof, in multi-agent interactions    March 26, 2009   Presenter:  Saad Sheikh   Paper: Recent progress in the Sibling reconstruction problem  Author:  Saad Sheikh .    March 05, 2009   Presenter:  Mayank Lahiri   What:  Prediction in Dynamic Networks  Author:  Mayank Lahiri .    February 26, 2009   Presenter: Priya Govindan  What: Inferring network structure using Maximum Likelihood approach  Author: Priya Govindan.    February 19, 2009   Presenter:  Chayant Tantipanandh   Paper: Algorithms for Identifying Dynamic Communities  Authors:  Chayant Tantipanandh and Tanya Y. Berger-Wolf .    February 12, 2009   Presenter: Rajmonda Sulo  What: The talk will cover some of the relations that exist between the structural and spectral properties of graphs.    February 05, 2009   Presenter: Arun S. Maiya  Paper:  Graph Model Selection Using Maximum Likelihood  Authors: Ivona Bezáková , Adam Kalai , and Rahul Santhanam .   January 22, 2009   Presenter:  Habiba   Paper: The importance of relationship timing for diffusion  Author: James Moody .   October 16, 2008   Presenter:  Saad Sheikh   Paper:  Minimum Parents Reconstruction  Author:  Saad Sheikh .   October 09, 2008   Presenter: Tsvi Achler, (UIUC).  Paper: A Self-Regulatory Feedback Solution to Combinatorial Explosion, Superposition Catastrophe and Binding Problems  Author:  Tsvi Achler .   September 25, 2008   Presenter: Jen Anderson and Paul Varkey  What: Jen will talk about her past and current research work and what her
overall research interests are. Paul will be giving a small talk titled "Game-theoretic analysis of
bargaining under uncertainty".   March 18, 2008   Presenter: Arun Maiya  Paper: Automated social hierarchy detection through email network analysis  Authors: Ryan Rowe, German Creamer , Shlomo Hershkop , Salvatore J Stolfo .   February 12, 2008   Presenter: Habiba   Paper: Cost-effective Outbreak Detection in Networks  Authors: Jure Leskovec , Andreas Krause , Carlos Guestrin , Christos Faloutsos , Jeanne VanBriesen ,Natalie Glance.   February 05, 2008   Presenter: Chayant Tantipanandh   Paper: GraphScope: Parameter-free Mining of Large Time-evolving Graphs  Authors: Jimeng Sun , Spiros Papadimitriou , Philip S. Yu , Christos Faloutsos .   February 01, 2008   Presenter: Mayank Lahiri   Paper: On the Complexity of Mining Periodic Behavior in Dynamic Networks  Authors: Mayank Lahiri , Tanya Y. Berger-Wolf .   December 05, 2007   Presenter: Anushka Anand  Paper: Familiarity breeds contempt: a graph-diffusion kernel for analyzing enmity biological networks  Authors: Yan Qi, Yasir Suhail, Joel S. Bader .  November 14, 2007   Presenter: Arun Maiya   Paper:  Social Network Analysis for Routing in Disconnected Delay-Tolerant MANETs   Authors:  Elizabeth Daly , Mads Haahr .  October 31 , 2007   Presenter: Chayant Tantipathananandh   Paper:  Approximate graph coloring by semidefinite programming   Authors:  David R. Karger , Rajeev Motwani , Madhu Sudan .  October 24 , 2007   Presenter: Mayank Lahiri   Paper:  Wherefore Art Thou R3579X? Anonymized Social Networks, Hidden Patterns, and Structural Steganography   Authors:  Lars Backstrom , Cynthia Dwork , Jon Kleinberg .  October 10 , 2007   Presenter: Habiba   Paper:  Worm versus alert: Who wins in a battle for control of a large-scale network?   Authors:  James Aspnes , Navin Rustagi , Jared Saia .  September 19 , 2007   Presenter: Saad Sheikh   Paper:  Computer software for performing likelihood tests of pedigree relationship using genetic markers   Authors:  Keith F. Goodnight , David C. Queller .  September 12 , 2007   Presenter: Arun Maiya  Paper:  Exploiting Social Interactions in Mobile Systems   Authors:  Andrew G. Miklas , Kiran K. Gollu , Kelvin K.W. Chan , Stefan Saroiu ,Krishna P. Gummadi , and Eyal de Lara.  September 5, 2007   Presenter: Habiba   Paper: Betweenness Centrality Measure in Dynamic Networks  Authors: Habiba , Chayant Tantipathananandh , Tanya Y. Berger-Wolf .      © 2007 University of Illinois at Chicago . All rights reserved.  Design by NodeThirtyThree Design   