https://business.uic.edu/faculty-and-research/ilead-institute-leadership-excellence-development
Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD) | UIC Business | University of Illinois at Chicago                             Skip to the content of this page ,  the main menu , the secondary menu , the site search form , the site home page .        UIC Logo        UIC Business     Search the site     Toggle Menu      Search                  UIC Logo          UIC Business      UIC Business   Main Menu    Undergraduate    Expand Undergraduate menu           Undergrad Admissions    Undergraduate Degrees    UIC Business Scholars    Pre-College Programs    Student Life at UIC Business    Business Career Center    Professional Development         Graduate    Expand Graduate menu           Graduate Admissions    Graduate Degrees    Guaranteed and Preferred Admissions    Graduate Career Services         Doctoral    Expand Doctoral menu           Doctoral Degrees    UIC Doctoral Students         Alumni    Expand Alumni menu           Give to UIC Business    Why I Give    Donor Recognition Society    Student Scholarship Support    Ways to Get Involved    Alumni Leadership Academy    Contact the Office of Advancement         Recruiters    Expand Recruiters menu           Center for Applied Analytics         Faculty/Research    Expand Faculty/Research menu           Faculty    Research    International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)    Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)    UIC Entrepreneurial Support Program    For the Media    Faculty Recruitment          Eyebrow menu    Give Now    Visit Our Blog    Current Students    About Us    UIC menu    UIC.edu    Campus Map       Search                 View Menu  Down arrow icon            Breadcrumbs   UIC Business    Faculty/Research    Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)        Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)  World-Class Research for Today's Business World  Since 1991, business leaders in Chicago and beyond have turned to iLEAD to conduct applied research that provides actionable results for solving people-related workplace challenges.  Our client projects provide a comprehensive, detailed analysis on the topic of focus and evidence-based recommendations to address challenges and effect workplace change.       Improving management practice and leadership effectiveness through research, education and training.   As part of Chicago’s world-class public research university, the Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD) at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) partners with businesses to conduct customized client projects that:   Provide a thorough diagnosis of the primary causes of workplace challenges  Identify actionable solutions to these challenges  Track improvement on key outcomes such as individual, team, and organizational performance       Sample Client Topics    Leading individuals and teams  Creating a servant leadership culture  Achieving high performance through effective leadership  Managing work-life stress  Exploring the drivers of employee engagement  Identifying the predictors of upward mobility of under-represented employees  Investigating the role of mentoring in employee development  Assessing individual, team, leader, and organization effectiveness      Example iLEAD Clients    Allstate Insurance  Avasure  Bristol Meyers Squibb  Caterpillar  Jason’s Deli  Motorola  UPS  United States Gypsum (USG)  Wheaton Park District           The iLead Process    Discussion of the problem area including causes and consequences  Problem domain and project parameters identified  In-depth analysis of prior research on issue  Research design to impact critical outcomes  Selection of valid and reliable measures  Data collection  Data-appropriate statistical analyses  Evidence-based recommendations  Formal presentation of findings   Quote for a customized iLEAD project available upon request.  iLEAD helps business leaders discover the information they need to bring value to their companies through improved performance.      Testimonials    The iLEAD research project on servant leadership has provided a remarkable insight into a myriad of opportunities to enhance our greatest asset – our culture. Dr. Sandy Wayne and doctoral student Eric Michel presented a professional interpretation of the data that both educated and inspired our executive team. We are so very grateful for this relationship.    Joe V. Tortorice | Founder and Chairman of the Board, Jason’s Deli        Client Projects     Jason's Deli         Client: Jason's Deli   PDF      Business Challenge   Measure the impact of corporate servant leadership initiatives within the delis and how they contribute to deli effectiveness.     ilead Custom Research Solution   Managers and employees from 76 delis participated in the study by completing a survey designed to address the specific business challenge. Deli financial outcomes were linked to the survey data.     Evidence-Based Insights   Results indicated that deli general managers who engaged in high levels of servant leadership established a culture that positively impacted employee performance and overall deli financial outcomes. The results have been instrumental in designing the socialization and training of new deli general managers.           United Sates Gypsum (USG)         Client: United Sates Gypsum (USG)   PDF      Business Challenge   Identify critical drivers of employee engagement and how they can be leveraged to enhance employee performance.     ilead Custom Research   Conducted a web-based survey of the salaried workforce to identify drivers and barriers to employee engagement.  Employee engagement was assessed as the strength of the overall relationship between the employee and the company and included satisfaction with job, career, manager, work group, and company.     iLEAD Insights   Results indicated that employees who reported higher levels of engagement were higher performing, more committed to the company, and were less likely to search for employment opportunities elsewhere. Key drivers of employee engagement included:   Job characteristics: autonomy and job security  Relationship with manager: quality of the overall relationship, trust, mentoring and feedback received, support for balancing work and family  Relationship with company overall: recognition received, quality of the overall relationship, trust in top management  Career opportunities and career support, fairness of promotions            Wheaton Park District (WPD)         Client: Wheaton Park District (WPD)   PDF      Business Challenge   Identify key drivers of employee productivity, such as job performance, helping behaviors, counterproductive behaviors, and safety participation.     ilead Custom Research   A range of individual, leader, team, and organizational factors were analyzed in an effort to identify the most important WPD-specific elements to improve effectiveness and employee well-being. An annual survey of 400 employees and supervisors, using the iLEAD mobile tablet laboratory, yields an annual custom report of key findings.     ilead Insights   Results indicate that the most effective ways to improve individual performance were related to leadership enhancement and led to the following recommendations:   Develop and implement servant leadership and relevant soft skills training for all supervisors  Foster positive team culture and enhanced leader-follower relationships through supervisor engagement and a well-communicated organizational vision from top management  Hire and promote managers with well-developed leadership skills            Increasing Diversity in Management         Client: Increasing Diversity in Management   PDF      Business Challenge    Determine actionable ways to increase representation of people of color and women in management.  Determine key drivers of upward mobility.  Identify barriers of upward mobility for people of color and women.      Company Overview    Publicly-traded international financial services provider.      iLEAD Custom-Research Solution    Administered an on-line survey designed to capture employees’ work and career-related experiences at the financial services firm. Employee participants were diverse in race/ethnicity and gender.  Conducted an on-line survey of managers’ assessments of participating employees’ managerial skills, leadership competencies, and promotability.      Evidence-Based Insights   Key drivers of upward mobility:   Qualities of the employee: managerial competencies, task-related and interpersonal skills, leadership confidence, and managerial aspirations.  Work relationships: professional reputation, feelings of inclusion and support from peers, mentoring by managers.  Direct manager: high-quality relationship with direct manager who provides on-the-job, career-enhancing opportunities.  Organizational culture and support: employee fit with values of the firm and provision of developmental opportunities.   Barriers to upward mobility for under-represented groups:   African American and Hispanic/Latino employees received fewer developmental opportunities such as stretch assignments, special projects, lateral movements, and coaching/feedback.  Women, compared to men, reported a lower-quality relationship with their direct manager and receiving fewer on-the-job, career-enhancing opportunities.  Across all employees (men/women and race/ethnicity), the promotion system was viewed as highly subjective and low on fairness.      iLEAD Recommendations    Increase manager accountability for developing a diverse pool of talent.  Support managers in providing developmental job experiences, especially for under-represented employees.  Address women’s work-life balance concerns by expanding flexible work schedules and others forms of support.  Enhance transparency and objectivity of promotion process.                 iLEAD Research Team      Don
    
    Kluemper  Associate Professor and Co-Director of the Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)    Phone:   (312) 413-9308     Email:   kluemper@uic.edu      View Profile       Robert
    C.
    Liden  Professor, Coordinator of OB/HR PhD Program, and Associate Dean of PhD Programs    Phone:   (312) 996-0529     Email:   bobliden@uic.edu      View Profile       John
    Wiley
    Lynch  Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-3073     Email:   jwlynch@uic.edu      View Profile       Harshad
    
    Puranik  Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 413-8237     Email:   hpuranik@uic.edu      View Profile       Sandy J.
    
    Wayne  Professor, Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, Faculty Director for Business Scholars, and Co-Director of the Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)    Phone:   (312) 413-1717     Email:   sjwayne@uic.edu      View Profile       Zhenyu
    
    Yuan  Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-5145     Email:   zyuan19@uic.edu      View Profile               iLEAD in the Classroom  In addition to receiving a research-based business education, UIC Business students take their education one step further, moving past scholastic achievement to what’s needed to lead in business today. iLEAD gives students training in the key competencies that employers seek: written and verbal communication, teamwork, problem solving, decision making, confidence and self-awareness, and relationship building. The professional development program instructors draw from the training modules of improvisational theater—connecting with people in the moment, responding spontaneously, and being ready for anything.   iLEAD Professional Development Program            Faculty/Research    Back to main content           Faculty     Department of Accounting    Department of Finance    Department of Information and Decision Sciences    Department of Managerial Studies    iLEAD Professional Development Program      Research    International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)    Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)    UIC Entrepreneurial Support Program    For the Media    Faculty Recruitment                   UIC Logo         College Of  Business  Administration           Quick Links    About Us    Media    Events    News    Corporate MBA Programs at UIC    Give to UIC Business      External Links    Visit Our Blog    UIC.edu    Visit Campus    Current Students    Phone Book    Privacy Notice        Contact Us    Contact Us         Contact   601 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607  Phone: (312) 996-2700  uicbusiness@uic.edu        Social Media Accounts    Facebook    Twitter    Instagram    YouTube                      UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UIC Safe Mobile App  UIC Today  UI Health  Veterans Affairs        Powered by Red 2.38.0  © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield      Cookie Settings                   