https://today.uic.edu/a-biological-mechanism-for-depression
A biological mechanism for depression | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                A biological mechanism for depression  April 21, 2020   Mark Rasenick  University of Illinois at Chicago researchers report that in depressed individuals there are increased amounts of an unmodified structural protein, called tubulin, in lipid rafts — fatty sections of a cell membrane — compared with non-depressed individuals.  Their findings are published in the Journal of Neuroscience.  Tubulin is part of a protein complex that provides structure to cells. This complex also is involved in binding a specific protein called Gs alpha, or Gsa, which is a signaling molecule that conveys the action of neurotransmitters like serotonin.  Previous work established that high levels of Gsa were in the lipid rafts of depressed individuals and that Gsa lost effectiveness when in those lipid rafts. Gsa moved out of the lipid rafts after treatment with antidepressants or after using a drug inhibitor for histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC-6) — an enzyme that removes modifications from tubulin — suggesting a role of tubulin in depression as well.  Mark Rasenick, UIC professor of physiology and psychiatry at
the College of Medicine, and colleagues analyzed post-mortem brain tissue from
individuals with and without a diagnosis of depression to determine the
location and degree of modified tubulin. A subgroup for depression also
included individuals who died by suicide.  “While some studies suggest that there are differences between depressed individuals who died by suicide and those that did not, we observed a profound decrease in the extent of acetylated tubulin in lipid raft membranes from brains of all depressed subjects,” said Rasenick, who is also a research career scientist at the Jesse Brown Veteran Affairs Medical Center.  In all groups, there were no significant changes in the amounts of modified alpha tubulin, HDAC-6, or alpha tubulin acetyltransferase 1 — a protein that adds modifications to tubulin. However, there was less modified tubulin found in the lipid rafts of both depression groups versus the non-depressed group. According to Rasenick, the data suggest that diminished tubulin acetylation may be essential in harnessing Gsa to lipid rafts during depression. Antidepressants reverse this process and allow fuller function of Gsa and the neurotransmitters that activate it.  PAX Neuroscience Inc., a company created by Rasenick, researches
how Gsa localization
could be a diagnostic biomarker in blood cells to identify individuals with depression. Now the company will explore
tubulin-related depression therapeutics and diagnostics. This may add new
approaches to therapy and create diagnostic platforms to determine, in just a
few days, whether an antidepressant is working.  “This work is important because half of the people who appear to be suffering from depression don’t seek treatment,” Rasenick said. “This is likely due to the social stigma surrounding people with psychiatric problems. But having an identified biological basis for depression could help people to realize that depression is not ‘their failure’ and allow them to treat it like any other illness.”  Harinder Singh, Justyna Chmura, Runa Bhaumik and Ghanshyam Pandey from UIC were co-authors.  Funding was provided by grants and awards from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (BX001149 and BX 004475), the National Institutes of Health (RO1AT009169, R21 NS 109862 and RO1MH106565) and the American Heart Association (16POST27770113).  Written by Natasha Wadlington     Contact   Jacqueline Carey 312-996-8277  jmcarey@uic.edu  twitter.com/JCareyUIC       Categories   Health Sciences Colleges , Research   Topics College of Medicine , depression , reserach          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     