https://today.uic.edu/uic-vanda-pharmaceuticals-partner-to-develop-antiviral-against-covid-19
UIC, Vanda Pharmaceuticals partner to develop antiviral against COVID-19 | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC, Vanda Pharmaceuticals partner to develop antiviral against COVID-19  April 13, 2020    The University of Illinois College of Medicine and Vanda Pharmaceuticals are partnering to develop an antiviral drug to fight against SARS-CoV-2.  The project is led by Bellur S. Prabhakar, UIC professor of microbiology and immunology and senior associate dean for research in the College of Medicine. Collaborators include the UICentre for Drug Discovery , led by director Gregory Thatcher, and the High-Throughput Screening Core , led by director Kiira Ratia.  During the virus infection process, the virus attaches to a receptor protein on the cell surface. Then the virus uses a cell enzyme (cathepsin-L) to cut its surface glycoprotein (S protein). The exposed part of S protein fuses with the cell membrane and establishes infection by emptying its genome inside the cell and replicating. The UIC team of scientists will develop inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 entry into cells to fight against COVID-19.  “We can readily deploy
the high-throughput screening we had developed to successfully screen for small
molecules that specifically inhibited cathepsin-L mediated cleavage of SARS,
Ebola, Hendra and Nipah derived proteins, and entry of pseudotyped virus into
cells,” Prabhakar said. “Given the similarity between SARS-CoV and
COVID-19, we expect to identify potential drug candidates to treat COVID-19
infection.”  Because these viruses cannot
live outside the cell for a long period of time, viral entry into the cell can
be readily inactivated by various chemicals and proteins in the extracellular
body fluids. A drug is expected to attack the earliest stages of virus
infection and protect the host.     Contact   Natasha Wadlington   wadlngtn@uic.edu     Categories   Campus , Research                UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     