https://today.uic.edu/uic-chemical-engineers-get-muddy-to-develop-renewable-fuel-cell
UIC chemical engineers get ‘muddy’ to develop renewable fuel cell | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC chemical engineers get ‘muddy’ to develop renewable fuel cell  April 13, 2020   This image depicts a conductive graphenic blanket covering the surface of an electrogenic bacterium to connect its electron-emitting proteins to a circuit for improved energy harvestation. Such an interface between electrogenic bacteria and conformal conductive-nanoblankets can lead to an evolution of standalone, bacteria-powered nanodevices. Photo: Sheldon Cotts  Engineers digging for efficient ways to harness sustainable power found a surprising fuel source — mud and a common bacterium often found in it.  University of Illinois at Chicago researcher Vikas Berry and his
colleagues built a fuel cell from electrogenic microbes covered in extremely
thin graphene sheets. The bacteria produce electrons on their surface and
release protons as they consume nutrients from the mud, such as sugar or
acetates. The fuel cell then separates the electrons in the anode and moves the
protons to the cathode to produce green and renewable power.  Their work is detailed in the article “ Interface of Electrogenic Bacteria and Reduced Graphene Oxide:
Energetics and Electron Transport ,” which is
the cover story in the forthcoming edition of the journal ACS Applied
Electronic Materials.  The mud’s bacterium has been used as electron-source since the 1980s when it was first discovered.  “For every molecule of acetate consumed, eight electrons are produced by this bacterium,” said Berry, UIC professor and head of chemical engineering. “However, previous work has fallen short of electrically connecting the cell surface with high-conductivity material.”  To get around this issue, the UIC engineers blanketed the bacteria with flexible and highly conductive graphene sheets to cover the cell surface to improve the efficiency of electron extraction. The graphene, therefore, directly extracts the electrons exiting from the electrogenic protein channels on the cell surface.  “That’s the ingenuity of this work. The graphene is single atom
thick, so it is very flexible,” Berry said. “It covers the bacteria to capture
more surface of the bacteria, which has the protein channels, where the
electrons come out.”  Another positive
attribute of this design is the renewable nature of the bacteria.  During the course
of their research, Berry’s team worked with several other cell types that would
die in 8 to 14 hours.  However, these cells
are resilient and can survive harsh conditions in nature, so if food is continually added they will keep producing
electrons until the food source runs out.  Research team member Sheldon Cotts, a UIC Ph.D. student in chemical engineering, said the bacteria is unique because it almost completely breaks down its source of food, so it could be used to break down organic wastewater streams from municipal wastes, breweries and some kinds of industrial waste.  “When they break these substances down, they may provide
electricity to the grid. This is a rare example of a waste remediator and power
source at the same time,” Cotts said.  The UIC researchers
also discovered that when their graphene interfaced with these bacteria, graphene’s
own conductivity improved, which helped the extraction of the electrons even
further.  The group’s current work focuses on single-cell experiments to better understand the mechanism behind the electron-transport phenomenon and building microfluidic devices to harness the potential of the bacteria.  In the future, the fuel cells could be used to power microdevices, according to Berry.  “Since graphene has already revolutionized device circuitry, its ability to conformally blanket electrogenic microbes to harvest electrons can lead to new-generation designs of bio-powered circuitry to run stand-alone nanodevices,” Berry said. “As these cells feed on soil, such devices can be powered from the ground mud to power or charge medical, defense or other devices in remote areas.”  Cotts added that forthcoming work also needs to be done to educate the public on the fact that not all bacteria are dangerous and it can be used to address energy and other societal issues.  Co-authors on the article also include Bijentimala Keisham, UIC alumna who earned a Ph.D. chemical engineering, and Jay Rawal, UIC senior in chemical engineering.  Co-written by David Brazy     Contact   Brian Flood 312-996-7681  bflood@uic.edu  twitter.com/bflooduic       Categories   Faculty , Research   Topics chemical engineering , College of Engineering , renewable energy          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     