https://today.uic.edu/inspiring-grads-discovering-passion-for-computer-science-pays-off
Inspiring grads: Discovering passion for computer science pays off | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                Inspiring grads: Discovering passion for computer science pays off  April 29, 2019   Kevin Bell  (Photo: Fan Wang)  En español  At first glance the story seems unreal: a high school student with a 1.1 GPA turned college graduate — earning a degree in computer science, no less.  For
Kevin Bell, the feat is a real-life milestone, a far-off dream come to
fruition.  “When
I was younger, if you would have told me that I would be graduating with a
computer science degree, I would have called you crazy,” said Bell, who is from
Hazel Crest, Illinois. “I really didn’t care about my future like that.”  Bell
had other things on his mind. Video games, mostly.  “I
did the bare minimum to graduate. I was unmotivated,” Bell said.  That
attitude continued when he enrolled in his local community college, but was
dismissed due to his grades soon after he started. He turned to the U.S. Navy
as another possible career option, but was disqualified from joining.  “I
took it as a sign to go back to school, to go with a different mindset and try.
To see what I could do if I actually tried,” he said.  So,
Bell made a change. He enrolled at Harold Washington College, where he
committed to becoming more serious about academics and his future.  “I
started to think, ‘What am I going to school for? OK, I like video games, so
maybe computer science to work on video games,’ but video games are really
hard,” Bell said with a laugh. “But I thought ‘Hey, I like this coding thing,
so let me see what this is about.’”  In
2016, he graduated with an associate’s degree in applied science. He
transferred to UIC as a Black Tech Scholar and took a 100-level
computer science class, which looked at programming in terms of public policy
and legal issues such as predictive policing.  “That’s
where I really started to say, ‘This is pretty cool. I’m going to figure out
how to get into this,’” Bell said.  He
also took advantage of the resources and support available to students through
places like the UIC cultural centers.  “People
from the African American Cultural Center said, ‘Hey man, we see you here
often, do you want a job?’ And I became their IT assistant,” he said.  Faculty
and staff from the College of Engineering have helped him, too. Thanks in part
to a career fair in September, Bell secured a job at Discover as a software
engineer, which he’ll start after graduation. But before he accepted the
position, he also had interviews with Google, Microsoft and Amazon.  “I’m
the first Bell to graduate from college. I’m the first engineer in my family. I
haven’t really said that out loud, and it’s crazy to think about,” Bell said.  When
he looks back on his time at UIC, he’ll think of the people who have touched
his life — and his responsibility to pay it forward.  “I
think of this period in my life as a time when I blossomed and as a time where
I learned to be mindful of helping others like me because a lot of people here
have helped me get where I am,” he said. “I’m ready to excel and tackle what
comes next.”     Contact   Francisca Corona   fcoron3@uic.edu     Categories   Campus , Students    Topics  commencement , graduation , inspiring grads              UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     