https://today.uic.edu/board-grants-key-approvals-for-uics-new-health-care-engineering-buildings?utm_source=mailpoet&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=march-17_517
Board grants key approvals for UIC’s new health care, engineering buildings | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                Board grants key approvals for UIC’s new health care, engineering buildings  March 12, 2020   Two capital improvement
projects planned for the University of Illinois at Chicago campus received key
approvals from the University of Illinois Board of Trustees today.  The board voted to approve all construction-related activity for UI Health’s new 200,000-square-foot Outpatient Surgery Center and Specialty Clinics building, which will be located at the southeast corner of Wood and Taylor streets. This includes approval for the university to enter into the agreements necessary to finalize the public-private partnership that will provide the majority of financing for the new $194 million building.  The board also approved a $117.8 budget for the Computer Design Research and Learning Center, a 125,000-square-foot mixed-use space for UIC’s College of Engineering. The building will be designed to meet LEED Gold certification standards for environmental sustainability and will be located at 900 W. Taylor St., adjacent to Memorial Grove.  “UIC’s students, staff and faculty are among Chicago’s most driven and innovative leaders and they need and deserve world-class facilities,” said UIC Chancellor Michael Amiridis. “These new buildings are an investment in our and Chicago’s future. They will enhance significantly our teaching, research and clinical operations and will allow UIC to advance, grow and flourish.”  Rendering of the proposed UI Health Outpatient Surgery Center and Specialty Clinics building (Image: Shive Hattery/ZGF)  Outpatient Surgery Center and Specialty Clinics  The Outpatient Surgery
Center and Specialty Clinics building will include six floors of patient care
space, including eight operating and eight procedure rooms, 48 pre- and post-surgery
bays, clinic space for GI, ophthalmology, otolaryngology, transplant and
urology clinics, and a pharmacy.  “UI Health brings
together seven health sciences colleges and a significant portfolio of bench to
community research with a world-class, public clinical care delivery
system,” said Dr. Robert Barish, vice chancellor for health affairs at
UIC. “This building will serve as a new hub for our top-ranked
ophthalmology and transplant programs, and we are looking forward to bringing
this new, comfortable space to our patients.”  Under the public-private partnership between UIC and Provident Resources Group, a 501(c)(3) corporation, Provident will finance nearly three-quarters of the cost of the building through tax-exempt bonds and lease the facility to UI Health during the 30-year term of the bonds. Additional funding will come from the health system and private philanthropy. In November 2019, Bruno and Sallie Pasquinelli pledged $10 million for the project.  “UI Health continues to see 5% annual growth in outpatient surgeries across many surgical services lines and the new building will also provide the space needed for our growing specialty clinics,” said Michael Zenn, CEO of University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics. “Using a public-private partnership model will allow us to move forward on an accelerated timeline while working collaboratively with developers, architects, contractors and others to ensure the building will best serve the needs of our community.”  The project will be
presented to the Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board on April
7. Pending approval, groundbreaking is planned for August 2020. Completion of
the project is expected in 2022.  Rendering of the proposed Computer Design Research and Learning Center (Image: Booth Hansen/LMN Architects)  Computer Design Research and Learning Center  The Computer Design Research and Learning Center will include a 1,200-square-foot robotics lab and 16,000 square feet of classroom space. It also will be the new home for UIC’s Electronic Visualization Laboratory, an internationally renowned interdisciplinary research lab.  “This new building
represents the extraordinary momentum of the UIC College of Engineering, which
has grown to serve more than 5,300 students each year,” said Peter Nelson, dean
of the college.  “The building will also serve
as an important space for our computer science department, which has seen
skyrocketing enrollments, has six specialties ranked in the top 25 nationally
and is leading the nation in recruiting world-class faculty members,” Nelson
said.  Over the last 15 years, the UIC computer science department has grown from 187 undergraduate students to more than 1,400 students, and since 2018, the department has hired 13 new faculty members.  The computer science department has
approximately $45 million in active research grants, with national CSRankings
in: web and
information retrieval (7), economics and computation (12), artificial
intelligence (17), logic and verification (17), machine learning and data
mining (21), and natural language processing (21).  The mixed-use space will
include research labs and collaborative areas for students and research groups.  “Computer science is also
an increasingly popular minor among UIC students from a number of programs,
like liberal arts and business, so this building will have an impact on many
students across campus,” Nelson said.  The new building will be the second new construction project for UIC’s College of Engineering in recent years. The Engineering Innovation Building, which is home to the Chicago area’s only high-bay structural research laboratory, opened in July 2019.  Groundbreaking is estimated for November 2020 and completion is expected in 2022.     Contact   Jacqueline Carey 312-996-8277  jmcarey@uic.edu  twitter.com/JCareyUIC       Categories   Campus , Featured Campus , Health Sciences Colleges , Patient Care , UI Hospital , University   Topics capital project , College of Engineering , Computer Design Research and Learning Center , computer science , Outpatient Surgery Center , UI Health          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     