https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/about/regional-deans-welcome
Welcome From Regional Dean | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Welcome From Regional Dean Home / About / Welcome From Regional Dean  Welcome From Regional Dean tlowery1 2019-11-11T13:17:17-06:00 Welcome from the Regional Dean Exciting things are happening at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford! We are embarking on impactful transformation to move the college and campus in a strongly progressive direction. Our mission of education, research and service for health keeps us focused on being an academic medical center committed to developing an optimal learning environment for training healthcare professionals, conducting innovative research and improving the health and wellness of our society. After an intense strategic planning process with nearly 100 community partners and campus leaders, seven committees were charged with developing actionable objectives to fulfill that mission. Their work was stellar! The UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford includes the College of Medicine, College of Nursing and College of Pharmacy and their respective programs, which allows for inter-professional collaboration among our students. Important research in the fields of cancer, immunology and health policy is conducted on campus. Due to a remarkably generous gift of $3 million from the Blazer Foundation, we opened the Regenerative Medicine and Disability Research Laboratory. The Research Committee prepared a growth plan for the next five years and identified ways to promote increased medical student, resident, fellow and faculty participation in research. Founded in 1971 to address the health care needs of the people of Illinois, the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford has trained more than 2,200 physicians. Nearly 50 percent of our graduates practice in Illinois and over 250 remain in the Rockford region. In addition to training physicians, the College of Medicine Rockford provides health care services at the L.P. Johnson Family Health Center. Dr. L.P. Johnson, a pioneer in family medicine education, started our Family Medicine Residency Program in 1972. The College of Medicine Rockford also serves as home to The National Center for Rural Health Professions and the Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program. RMED trains medical students to meet the specific needs of rural communities. We offer opportunities for area high school and college students to interact closely with professionals in an academic or industrial research environment through summer internships and a partnership with Thermo Fisher Scientific. The College has benefited from strong community partnerships. Those relationships have been enhanced and new ones forged as the College has taken an increasingly active role in improving the health and well-being of the community of Rockford and transforming the campus into a vibrant site for community activities related to health, wellness and education. The campus is designed to promote health and wellness for faculty, staff and students with healthy food options, wellness programs a fitness center and coffee lounge. As an economic driver for the city and the region, the College has identified methods to promote growth including developing research opportunities and a research agenda that can add value to the local economy and support private company work in the community through collaboration with University of Illinois expertise and resources; identifying and assisting in the coordination of community and health system programs and initiatives, thus creating a focus of greater cohesion concerning health and wellness in the community; and creating income opportunities through sponsored learning programs. The campus is available to host national or regional conferences as well as continue to deliver community-based wellness programs. I am both humbled and grateful to serve as Regional Dean of the College of Medicine Rockford. It is my goal to greatly expand upon the areas in which the College of Medicine has already excelled, and to dedicate the college to enhancing the health and economy of Rockford region. I hope you will feel free to contact me with any questions or suggestions you may have. I can be reached at (815) 395-5600 or at [email protected] to begin the dialogue. Sincerely, Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD, MHPE, MHA Regional Dean Professor of Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynecology, and Medical Education University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford Campus History Since 1971, the College of Medicine at Rockford has focused on building an academic medical institution committed to education and advocacy, dedicated to research and continuous innovation, and centered on clinical service in the surrounding communities. More About the Campus About Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             