https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/about/fast-facts
Fast Facts | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Fast Facts Home / About / Fast Facts  Fast Facts tlowery1 2019-08-05T14:36:02-05:00 Fast Facts Doctor of Medicine Program  The College of Medicine Rockford  (COMR) was founded in 1971 as a regional campus of the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Medicine. The first class was admitted in 1972 after completing their initial year on the Urbana campus and graduated in 1975. In 2017, the College of Medicine Rockford became a four-year campus with nine academic departments. Enrollment Total MD enrollment (2018): 231 Alumni Facts (1975-2018)  Total number of graduates: 1946 Male: 1238 Female: 708 Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program  The RMED program, part of the NCRHP, is a supplement to the regular MD curriculum. Ranked as one of the top rural medical education programs in the nation, the RMED program recruits students to serve in rural underserved areas as rural physicians. Master of Science Degree in Medical Biotechnology (MBT) Program  The program concentrates on biological processes, technologies and skill sets used in the research and development of pharmaceutical products, vaccines and devices for the medical industry. Enrollment (2018): 64  Total number of graduates (2017): 141 Illinois Medicine Curriculum  Through an intensive process, faculty from across all campuses collaborated curricular renewal to integrate teaching of basic sciences with clinical applications, enhance student-directed learning, and utilize active learning methodologies. The new Illinois Medicine Curriculum launched in 2017 and is organized into Phase 1 (pre-clerkship curriculum), Phase 2 (core clerkships plus electives), and Phase 3 (career pathway selectives, sub-internship, and intra- and extramural electives). Themes woven throughout the four-year curriculum are: Foundational Knowledge; Clinical Practice of Medicine; Health, Illness & Society; Health Care Systems; and Professional Development. Family Medicine Residency Programs  The Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program began in 1972 and has graduated 381 family medicine doctors, most practicing in both rural and urban under-served communities. The program is affiliated with SwedishAmerican Health System and is based out of the UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center. The Dixon Rural Training Track was established in 2004 in affiliation with KSB Hospital in Dixon, Ill. Resident physicians in this program spend their first year primarily in Rockford and their next two years in Dixon. The Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency  Program began in 2015 in affiliation with SSMHealth’s Monroe Clinic. Resident physicians in this program spend their first year primarily in Rockford and their next two years in Monroe. Enrollment (2018)  Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program: 21 Dixon Rural Training Track: 6 Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency: 8 Family medicine resident graduates  Rockford (2018): 395 Dixon (2018): 21 Monroe (2018): 1 Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program  New in 2018, the Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program sponsored by University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and has one fellow. The College of Medicine Rockford conducts groundbreaking research in a number of fields, from community-based health initiatives to cutting-edge cancer research and biomedical investigations leading to tomorrow’s vaccines and medical tests. Health Policy and Social Science Research  HPSSR is a Division of the Department of Family and Community Medicine that offers community assessments, feasibility studies, market analyses, customer satisfaction surveys, program evaluation, survey research, data requests (health, demographic, economic), census guidance and technical assistance for evaluation to a variety of clients. National Center for Rural Health Professions  NCRHP strives to meet the health care needs of rural residents and their communities in Illinois, around the nation and throughout the world. Certified by the Illinois Board of Higher Education since 2003, this College of Medicine Rockford center has programs and collaborative partnerships that have become successful models for education, service, research and policy related to rural health involving multiple health professions. The NCRHP is home to the Illinois Area Health Education Centers Network (AHEC) Program, Student Pipeline Program, Native American Pathways Program, Global Health Partnership Program and the Rural Health Professions Program. Within the Rural Health Professions Program is supplemental education that trains medical, pharmacy, advanced practice nursing and behavioral health students. The NCRHP is also a Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Medical Education and Primary Health Care. Office of Research  The mission is to increase student and faculty research productivity through the development of infrastructure and the provision of research opportunities needed for students and faculty. Programs in the Office of Research include: Ask a Biostatistician, James Scholar Program, Student & Resident Research Travel Award, Walter Rice Craig Fellowship and funding mechanisms. The Regenerative Medicine and Disability Laboratory  Part of the Department of Biomedical Sciences. Established through generous support of the Blazer Foundation, this lab focuses on fighting human motor neuron diseases and improving the integration of metal implants into the surrounding bone tissue, respectively. By combining stem cell biology, bioengineering, biomaterials, system biology, pharmacology and medicine, research in the RMDR lab aims to identify therapeutic agents, novel biomaterials and innovative approaches to improve clinical practice to provide better health care to patients with disabilities. Shingrix  Developed by Dr. Abbas Vafai while he was working at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford, the recombinant subunit protein vaccine is 90% effective against shingles  and decreases the risk of post-herpetic neuralgia. The Center for Disease Control recommends Shingrix for adults 50 and over. Filariasis  Scientists at the College of Medicine Rockford developed Lfguard™ for prevention of lymphatic filariasis, the second leading cause of physical disability in the world, in adults and children. The vaccine is waiting FDA approval. Research Day  Every April the College of Medicine showcases research conducted on campus by students and faculty as well as by others in the Rockford area. The College of Medicine Rockford has several clinical operations that serve the community and special populations. These clinical sites also provide clinical experiences for our medical students and residents. UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center  This health center is a teaching facility that provides each patient the benefit of a team of health care professionals, extended personal attention and care for all ages and phases of life. The Family Medicine Residency Program offices are housed at the UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center at 1221 State Street in Rockford, adjacent to SwedishAmerican Hospital where resident physicians and attending physicians can attend to their patients if hospitalization is needed. For appointments, call (815) 972-1000. UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic  Women with thyroid disease who are or who want to become pregnant, as well as women who develop thyroid disease during or right after pregnancy, can see a renowned doctor who specializes in thyroid disease in pregnancy at the UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic in Rockford. Dr. Alex Stagnaro-Green sees patients at this clinic at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford, 1601 Parkview Ave. For appointments, call (815) 395-5870. University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford  Medical Evaluation Response Initiative Team (MERIT)  A child-centered, community-based program dedicated to providing all children suspected of physical abuse, sexual abuse or neglect with timely expert medical evaluations and treatment, as well as serving the community as a resource for prevention, research and education. The program is housed at Mercyhealth, 2300 N. Rockton Ave. in Rockford. For information, call (815) 971-2726. University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford  Correctional Health Care Services Since 2005, the University of Illinois College of Medicine has provided around-the-clock, on-site medical services as well as dental, mental health and pharmaceutical services to inmates at the Winnebago County Jail and the Winnebago County Juvenile Detention Center on a contractual basis. The health care team includes physicians, advanced nurse practitioners, nurses, mental health professionals, a physical therapist and a dentist who provide quality care to the men, women and youth served byWinnebago County correctional facilities. Community Service  Dedicated to bettering the community as a whole, the College of Medicine Rockford faculty, staff and students serve the community in a large number of organizations including Rock House Kids, Transform Rockford, Gigi’s Playhouse, Rockford Public Schools District 205, Rockford Rescue Mission and Winnebago County Board of Health. Affiliations  As a community-based medical school, the College of Medicine Rockford has affiliation agreements with most of the health systems and clinics in the Rockford area where medical students, residents and/or fellows gain clinical experience under the guidance of our community faculty. We also have affiliation agreements regionally, statewide, nationally and even internationally. These agreements allow our students to have clinical experiences in a variety of settings and some allow for the exchange of students from around the world. Overall Economic Impact of the UIC Health Sciences Campus – Rockford About Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             