https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/about/glenn-netto-health-wellness-center
Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Home / About / Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center  Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center caherman 2019-11-12T09:16:02-06:00 The Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Together, the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford and the YMCA of Rock River Valley provide resources for students, staff and faculty to maintain an active, healthy lifestyle while pursuing their education or career. Through the Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center, these resources are free to all students, staff and faculty of the College of Medicine, College of Pharmacy and College of Nursing in Rockford. The center is located just off the main campus entrance in Room A146. When is the Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center Open? Monday-Friday 6 a.m.-midnight Saturday 8 a.m.-midnight Sunday 10 a.m.-midnight UIC Holidays 9 a.m.-midnight These are the same hours as the building hours. When the building is locked, the Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center is also closed. What does the Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center offer? Instructor-led group exercise classes (See your weekly UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford eNews e-mail newsletter for the monthly calendar of classes) Video classes on demand Strength training with free weights, weight benches and a dual-stack functional trainer Fitness necessities, including kettle bells, body bars, medicine and balance balls, yoga mats and foam roller Fully integrated cardio zone with treadmills, ellipticals, stationary bikes and rowers Lockers: There are lockers available to use in the Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center that are located by the free weights. In order to accommodate a large population, the lockers are available just for the time that you are using the fitness center. You must provide your own lock. Showers: There are two showers available for use across from the restrooms and to the right of the study rooms down the hall from the fitness center. Both single-stall restrooms have a shower in each, for your convenience. What Do I Have to Do to Gain Access? To Gain Access: Go to the front desk anytime M-F from 8 a.m. – 4:45 p.m. to ask for a Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center Waiver Form or you can download the Glenn Netto Health And Wellness Waiver Form . Read the Waiver: Before filling out the waiver, read it in its entirety. When you sign the document, you  agree to everything in the document and agree to be bound by its terms. Filling Out Waiver: Regardless of whether you are faculty, staff or a student – check of the box that indicates to which college you are connected: COM (College of Medicine), CON (College of  Nursing) or COP (College of Pharmacy). Fill out the information in its entirety and then bring it back to the front desk when the receptionist is there. (You may hold onto the waiver and turn it in at a later date and time.) Turning in Waiver: When the waiver is complete, turn it into the front desk M-F from 8 a.m. – 4:45 p.m. when the receptionist is there.  If you turn it in at or right up to 5 p.m., it will not be processed until the next business day. What Happens Next: Once the receptionist has the form, they will email Physical Plant to activate your key card or I-Card and send the form to the Office of the Regional Dean for their records. Activation Time: Activation time varies from a few hours to a couple of days depending on the time it takes to process the information. Once your key card is activated, you can scan and enter the fitness facility just by swiping your badge over the card reader. The Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center is to be accessed only by current students, faculty and staff. This includes all three colleges: College of Medicine, College of Nursing and College of Pharmacy. Only those that sign the Waiver Form and have them approved may access and use the facility. Friends and family of students, faculty or staff are not permitted access to the facility. Exceptions are not made. Standardized Patients cannot use the fitness center and extra help employees that have not been approved to use the facility by Human Resources are not permitted to use the fitness center at this time. Is There Someone Available to Show Me How to Use the Equipment? The Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center uses equipment from the YMCA where individual orientations can be set up through the YMCA by appointment only . The orientation appointment is to show you how to use the equipment properly, proper weight room etiquette and how to clean the equipment. If you would like to set up an appointment for an individual orientation, send an email to Gina Karvelis at the YMCA at [email protected] . Still Have Questions?  Lose Something You Left Behind? Stop by the Front Desk, M-F from 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Or Dial (815) 395-0600 to speak with the receptionist. Glenn Netto, MD ’80 Glenn D. Netto, MD, was a 1980 graduate of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford who went on to be named Assistant Professor of Medicine at the College of Medicine Rockford, teaching second-, third- and fourth-year medical students in history taking, physical diagnosis and clinical medicine. He was promoted to Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine in 1997, and he was named Interim Chairman of the Internal Medicine Department in 2007. He passed away in 2014 and his family provided funding for the fitness center that now bears his name: The Glenn Netto Health and Wellness Center. About Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             