https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/about/employment
Employment | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Employment Home / About / Employment  Employment tlowery1 2019-06-13T11:26:22-05:00 Employment Click here to apply for a job » When you click above you will be directed to the University of Illinois statewide web site, which serves Rockford, as well as Chicago, Springfield and Urbana. If you need assistance with applying online, please call the help desk at (312) 413-4848. Thank you for your interest in becoming a part of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford team where our mission is to educate, innovate and serve. Our team includes physicians, administrators, researchers, nurses, administrative support, medical business office staff, maintenance workers, medical assistants and others, all committed to providing exceptional education for our students, an environment where research flourishes and excellent medical care for our patients. Employment Types Faculty: employees that teach medical, pharmacy, nursing, public health, and/or medical biotechnology students Civil Service: employees that provide services such as nursing, administrative support, laboratory, maintenance, accounting and billing/coding Extra Help: temporary Civil Service employees Standardized Patients: a person trained to portray the role of a patient, thereby allowing medical students to practice physical exams, history taking and communication skills in the medical field. This experience gives students an opportunity to learn and to be evaluated on learned skills in a simulated clinical environment. Application Process Faculty: Follow application link on online posting Civil Service: Apply online at jobs.uic.edu ; questions should be referred to UIC Help Desk at (312) 413-4848. Human Resources will review your qualifications and, if qualified, contact you to schedule an examination. Civil Service exams are administered on Tuesday mornings or Thursday afternoons. * Please note that your qualifications for Civil Service examinations are determined based on application materials. Applications containing employment information from your first job through your current position, a detailed resume, copy of your college/university transcripts, and DD214, if applicable, must be received in Human Resources by the closing date of the job. Incomplete applications will not be considered. After the application deadline, the names of the top three candidates will be referred to the department for interviews. Extra Help: Apply online at jobs.uic.edu ; questions should be referred to UIC Help Desk at (312) 413-4848. E-mail [email protected] to express interest in a particular extra help job. Standardized Patients: The Office of Medical Education and Evaluation at the College of Medicine Rockford hires Extra Help employees who work with medical students to complete clinical skills assessments. We are recruiting individuals who can communicate effectively and be available for varied daytime hours to be Standardized Patients. For more information and to ensure your application is directed appropriately, contact the office at [email protected] . Standardized Patient Job Description Current Vacancies Family Medicine Physicians The University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford (UICOMR) seeks board-certified, full-time family physicians in the Department of Family and Community Medicine’s Family Medicine Residency. The UICOMR is a well-established regional campus for the University of Illinois College of Medicine, one of the largest medical schools in the United States. This is a great opportunity for innovative and progressive professionals to join our multidisciplinary team including care coordinators, behavioral scientists, nurse practitioners and pharmacists who provide comprehensive care for our patients and a rich educational experience for our residents and medical students. Founded in 1971, our residency is a 7-7-7, community-based program offering a full spectrum of care to a culturally diverse population. Our busy obstetrics program affords our residents over 50 normal deliveries and 10 continuity deliveries. A full-time obstetrician is affiliated with the program and comprehensive back-up for faculty is provided by community obstetricians, in-hospital OB laborists and perinatologists.  In addition to clinical practice, the positions provide for supervision of residents and medical students in the ambulatory and hospital setting as well as leadership activities for the practice. SwedishAmerican Health System, the busiest hospital in Rockford, is our partner and primary training site. A recipient of numerous quality recognitions, including 100 Top Hospital designation, SwedishAmerican provides access to state of the art services and a robust, high-quality medical staff for our patients, faculty and residents. Our clinical practice is located on SwedishAmerican’s campus. Rockford is a vibrant, mid-sized metropolitan city in northern Illinois about 80 miles northwest of Chicago. The city has an elite college baseball team and professional hockey team, numerous golf courses, an award-winning park system, three botanical gardens, an art museum, theater, symphony orchestra, dance company and river walk. Public and several private school systems are available. The ideal candidates will be board-certified, family physicians qualified to be licensed to practice in Illinois. Experience in clinical teaching, curriculum development, and/or practice management is preferred. OB skills are also preferred but not required. Faculty rank is commensurate with qualifications. For fullest consideration, submit CV, letter of interest and three references to http://jobs.uic.edu/rockford by May 20, 2019 . Applications accepted until June 20, 2019. For questions, contact Mayra Ernster in Human Resources ( [email protected] ). The University of Illinois conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer of employment. Background checks will be performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The University of Illinois is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. Minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.  For a complete listing of current Rockford vacancies click here.  About Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             