https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/education/md-admissions/rockford-interviews
Rockford Interviews | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Rockford Interviews Home / Education / MD Admissions / Rockford Interviews  Rockford Interviews tlowery1 2019-08-14T17:12:57-05:00 The main entrance is located on the east side of campus in the newest “A Building.” Interviews at Rockford Campus Congratulations on being assigned to interview at the Rockford campus. Although your interview site is not predictive of where you might be assigned upon admittance to the University of Illinois College of Medicine, we hope that you will consider requesting assignment to the Rockford campus. Please check out the information on our website, including the “ Fast Facts ,” to learn more about our program and our outstanding students, faculty and resources. We look forward to welcoming you to Rockford for your interviews! The campus is located at 1601 Parkview Ave. in Rockford, Illinois. Interview Day Schedule 8 a.m.-8:50 a.m.  Breakfast/Welcome   9 a.m.-11:45 a.m. Applicant Interviews  11:50 a.m.-1:30 p.m.  Lunch and Tours  1:35 p.m.-3 p.m.  University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford Overview  3-3:30 p.m.  Student Panel Question & Answer Session About the Interview Each applicant will participate in a series of multiple mini-interviews and a 25-minute 1:1 interview with a faculty member or physician. Interview times are assigned randomly to applicants between 9 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. Please anticipate that there may be some waiting time before your interview or between interviews. You will be given an overview of what it is like to be a medical student at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford.  At the end of the day we will have a panel of current students available for you to ask questions. Parking and Arrival You may park in any open space in the parking lot at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford. The main entrance is located at the easternmost “A” building with the large, silver pillars. When you enter, sign in with the security guard or receptionist at the main desk. You will receive a name badge and information packet that includes your schedule for the day. You will need to sign out at the main desk when you leave. If you have questions about admissions requirements, the interview day, scheduling of interviews or the status of your application, you can contact Lori Keener, Assistant Director of Admissions, University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford, at (815) 395-5569 or e-mail [email protected] . Directions to the College of Medicine from Interstate 90 Click here for directions from I-90 Hotel Accommodations The University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford has a discounted rate at several hotels. When you contact the reservation desk, tell them you are interviewing at the College of Medicine and ask about a discounted rate. Check the hotel’s website for directions. Visit the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for hotel options. Daily Bus Service from O’Hare Airport to Rockford Van Galder Bus provides daily round-trip service. No advance reservation is required. For more information, call 1 (800) 747-0994 or visit www.vangalderbus.com . You will need to arrange transportation from the Rockford Bus Center to the College of Medicine campus. Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             