https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/education/md-curriculum/campus-specific-programs
Campus Specific Programs | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs  James Scholar Program Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program Curriculum by Year  M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation  Search for:    Campus Specific Programs Home / Education / MD Curriculum / Campus Specific Programs  Campus Specific Programs tlowery1 2019-11-14T11:34:42-06:00 Campus Specific Programs At the College of Medicine at Rockford, providing well-rounded, comprehensive medical education and training is our goal – and that’s what we deliver to our students. From our specialized Rural Medical Education, Urban Health and MD programs, to our continuing medical education course offerings, our programs reflect a commitment to positively impacting community-based medicine. Our students receive great training. Recognized for our challenging medical curriculum, the College’s MD program combines academic coursework with an extended, longitudinal ambulatory experience through our clinical clerkships. For more information, please contact us. Clinician Executive Medicine Program (CE-MED) The CE-MED course is a four-year longitudinal curriculum providing insights into the clinician executive skills and knowledge essential to addressing the complex leadership challenges resulting from healthcare organizational and health policy changes that impact the way clinicians provide care.  It emphasizes the importance of collaboration among clinician leaders and non-clinician administrative leaders in healthcare delivery organizations today and in the future. James Scholar Program The James Scholar Program for Independent Study focuses on supporting and refining research skills among medical students as they develop into physicians and clinical professionals. The program is designed to support outstanding medical student researchers during their M2-M4 years. Rural Medical Education Program (RMED) Our RMED program is offered as a supplement to the MD curriculum. Students in this program track are exposed to rural issues throughout their four years of medical school, participating in seminars, field trips and other assignments that focus on rural healthcare, family medicine and community-oriented primary care techniques. During the M4 year, RMED students engage in a 16-week preceptorship in a rural Illinois community. Research Opportunities for Students Students have many opportunities to participate in basic or clinical research. Click Here to read more. Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             