https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/education/md-student-services-and-support/scholarship-opportunities
Scholarship Opportunities | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Scholarship Opportunities Home / Education / MD Student Services and Support / Scholarship Opportunities  Scholarship Opportunities caherman 2019-09-04T12:07:04-05:00 College of Medicine Rockford Scholarships College of Medicine Rockford Scholarship Fund – Established to provide financial support for students enrolled at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford. The scholarship recipients are selected on the basis of financial need. College of Medicine Rockford Rural Medicine Scholarship Fund – Established in 2016, this annual scholarship is awarded to first- through fourth-year medical students who are enrolled in the Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program, are in good academic standing and can demonstrate financial need.  Craig E.  Booher, MD Community Health Scholarship – New in 2018, this scholarship was established in memory of former College of Medicine Rockford Dean, Dr. Craig E. Booher.  Dr. Booher served as associate dean from 1972-1989 and acting dean in 1975. The scholarship is given to a fourth-year medical student who demonstrates financial need and who matches into a family medicine residency program. John A. & Idelle D. Segzda Scholarship – Established in 2004, in memory of John and Idelle Segzda of Freeport, Illinois, and made possible through the generosity of the Segzda family, the scholarship is designed to be awarded to second-, third-, or fourth-year medical students at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford who are in good academic standing and can demonstrate financial need.  FHN Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program Scholarship – This scholarship was established by the Freeport Regional Healthcare Foundation. This needs-based scholarship is awarded to a first- through fourth-year medical student enrolled in the Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program and who is from one of the following Illinois Counties: Winnebago, Stephenson, Boone, Ogle or Carroll. Karl F. Bader, Jr. Scholarship – Available to current and incoming University of Illinois students, with preference given to students with a craniofacial anomaly. This scholarship is being offered to any University of Illinois student without regard to campus, GPA, or program of study.  Major Thomas F. Koritz Memorial Scholarship – Established in memory of Dr. Thomas Koritz, a Class of 1979 College of Medicine Rockford graduate, who was killed in action in the Persian Gulf War. Application is open to students who complete a unique educational experience in Scotland, Ireland, the UK or any other country in which the primary language is English and an advanced healthcare system exists. The selection criteria will be based upon precognitive characteristics to reflect Dr. Koritz’s reputation as a compassionate physician and individual. Students will be asked to complete a post-visit presentation on their experience. Shirley Henley Philon Scholarship – Established by Mrs. Shirley Henley Philon of Rockford to provide scholarships for students enrolled at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford. Shirley was a long-time volunteer at the college, serving for over 10 years on the Dean’s Action Council. This scholarship is given to a third-year medical student in good standing, and will be selected on the basis of financial need and academic merit. Assir Daniel Da Silva Scholarship – This scholarship is for fourth-year medical students who demonstrate outstanding qualities embodied by Dr. DaSilva, including being outgoing, dependable, knowledgeable, amicable, diligent and dedicated to medicine. Recipients shall possess strong intellectual curiosity, excellent rapport and sensitivity to the needs of patients, and a sense of humor. Finally, recipients shall appreciate diversity in people, place, cultures, races and other areas important of leading rich, fulfilling lives.  Dr. L. P. Johnson Scholarship – Established in 1987, this scholarship is awarded annually to a fourth-year medical student at the College of Medicine in Rockford who, during his/her second and third years of study at said College, has shown interest and achievement in family practice.  Dr. L.P. Johnson, a pioneer in family medicine education, started our family medicine residency program in 1972. Dr.  Gary and Terry Rifkin Scholarship – Established in 2018 by Dr. Rifkin, a long-standing member of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford faculty, and his wife, Terry, in order to make medical education more affordable to College of Medicine Rockford students. The scholarship will be awarded to a fourth-year medical student with demonstrated financial need, who is interested in pursuing a career in internal medicine, and who is in the top 25% of the Rockford class.  If no student meets all the previous criteria, students with demonstrated financial need, who are interested in pursuing a career in internal medicine, and who are in the top 33% of the Rockford class may be considered. Richard W. and Trudy Gassmann Reynolds Scholarship in Rural Medicine – Established in 2019 by long-time Rockford residents, Richard (“Dick”) and Trudy Reynolds, in order to make education more affordable for students pursuing medical degrees who desire to advance rural medicine. In addition, the Reynolds established this fund to honor Trudy’s maternal grandfather, Dr. George T. Weber, a physician in Olney, Illinois, who brought medical care to many in rural Illinois. This annual scholarship is awarded to a student enrolled in the Rural Medical Education (RMED) Program with preference given to students that demonstrate a financial need. The Brubaker Charitable Trust Rural Medical Education Program Scholarship – This scholarship was established in 2019 by the Brubaker Charitable Trust of Rockford to make education more affordable for students from rural areas who are pursuing medical degrees at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford and who are committed to returning to their home communities to practice medicine after completing their training.  University of Illinois College of Medicine Scholarship Resources In addition to College of Medicine Rockford scholarship opportunities, the University of Illinois College of Medicine Office of Student Financial Aid provides of list of institution-wide resources for scholarships and grants.  To get more information, please visit: https://medicine.uic.edu/financial-aid/types-of-aid/#gift . For more information about scholarships, please contact the Director of Academic Services at (815) 395-5704. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             