https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/departments/academic-departments/biomedical-sciences/biomedical-sciences-summer-programs
Biomedical Sciences Summer Programs | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Biomedical Sciences Summer Programs Home / Departments / Academic Departments / Biomedical Sciences / Biomedical Sciences Summer Programs  Biomedical Sciences Summer Programs amoore35 2020-03-26T13:46:40-05:00 Summer Programs in Biomedical Sciences for High School Students Programs Descriptions Click the links below to find out more about the programs and eligible high schools. STEM Camp Program Summer Science Internship Program Eligible High Schools Contact Information STEM Camp STEM Camp 2020 has been cancelled. Program Mission The major mission of this one-week research camp is to expose current high school students to the various aspects of biomedical sciences and motivate them to consider careers in science. Understanding what is involved in medical research, how the research can make an impact in new discoveries that help cure diseases, or to understand the impact of bioengineering science where novel innovations and products are developed, can help the young mind to decide if this career is challenging enough for them to want to pursue it. This all-day, week-long summer camp is offered through the Department of Biomedical Sciences at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford and will consist of instruction, hands-on activities and demonstration of cutting-edge technologies used in medical research. Students should expect to be on campus from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. Summer Science Internship Program Mission The major mission of this program is to motivate area high school students to consider  careers in science . Understanding what is involved in medical research, how the research can make an impact in new discoveries that help cure diseases, or to understand the impact of industrial science where novel innovations and products are developed can help the young mind to decide if this career is challenging enough for them and to want to pursue it. The summer science research mentoring program offered through the department of Biomedical Sciences at the College of Medicine Rockford is a long standing collaborative undertaking between the Thermo Fisher Scientific (Pierce Biotechnology of Rockford) and the College of Medicine to serve the students in the Rockford School District and nearby communities. The program has been going on for over 32 years and aims at imparting new laboratory skills to the selected students. Research laboratories at the University of Illinois, Rockford campus, conduct cutting-edge research to find a cure for cancer, develop vaccines, and design and develop new drugs. Another major mission of this program is to provide invaluable experiences to the students by working side-by-side with leading scientists in the field at the University of Illinois. One of the great experiences the students learn is to work as part of a research team . During this process, the students develop a mentor relationship that often goes well beyond the summer internship. Mentors guide them and write letters of reference from their college admissions to career interviews. Each year the program receives approximately 45 applications from the area high school students for the five (5) internship positions available. The students receive various career building training such as preparation of resume, interviewing skills, oral and poster presentation skills, leadership skills and ability to work as a team all during the two months of internship training. Each student is paid a stipend sponsored by Thermo Fisher Scientific. Requirements You must be 16 years old by May 1, 2020. You must submit Double-spaced 500-word essay of what you hope to gain from this program and how it will influence your future. Resume including activities, memberships, honors/awards, work experience, and/or previous lab experience. Transcripts submitted electronically or through mail, postmarked by March 20, 2020. Three (3) letters of references with addresses (not all teachers). References may email them to [email protected] . Application and supporting documents must be emailed to Janet Stull Snow at [email protected] using subject line: “Summer Science – YOUR NAME” For any transcript and references that will be mailed, please mail to: Janet Stull Snow University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford Department of Biomedical Sciences 1601 Parkview Avenue Rockford, IL 61107 Cost There is NO cost for this program. You will be paid a stipend sponsored by Thermo Fisher Scientific. Important Dates June 8–August 7, 2020 Application Deadline: March 20, 2020 Student and Parent Information Night: Cancelled due to COVID-19 Orientation: June 8, 2020  Selected students will begin their internship with orientation and training. Experience Forum: August 6, 2020  Students will present their experience through oral presentations and scientific posters. Apply Today Click the button below to download the 2020 Summer Science Internship Application. Application is due March 20, 2020 . Download Here Eligible High Schools Students from the following high schools are eligible for this program: Auburn High School, Rockford Belvidere High School, Belvidere Belvidere High School North, Belvidere Boylan Catholic High School, Rockford Bryon High School, Byron Christian Life High School, Rockford Durand High School, Durand Harlem High School, Rockford Hononegah Community High School, Rockton Keith Country Day School, Rockford Lutheran High School, Rockford North Boone High School, Belvidere Pecatonica High School, Pecatonica Rockford Christian High School, Rockford Rockford East High School, Rockford Rockford Guilford High School, Rockford Rockford Iqra School, Rockford Rockford Lutheran High School, Rockford Roosevelt Community Education Center, Rockford Stillman Valley High School, Stillman Valley Thomas Jefferson High School, Rockford South Beloit High School, South Beloit Winnebago High School, Winnebago If your school is not on this area list, please call Janet at (815) 395-5680. Chicago suburb schools are not eligible for these programs. Contact Information For more information, please contact Janet Stull Snow at [email protected] or (815) 395-5680. ​ Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             