https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/education/programs-high-school-college-students/rural-health-careers-camp
Rural Health Careers Camp for High School Students | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Rural Health Careers Camp for High School Students Home / Education / Programs for High School and College Students / Rural Health Careers Camp for High School Students  Rural Health Careers Camp for High School Students caherman 2020-02-14T11:43:45-06:00 Rural Health Careers Camp  Click the links below to find out more about Rural Health Careers Camp and how to apply. For High School Students Camp Counselor/Camp Counselor Leader (for College Students) Contact Information Frequently Asked Questions Rural Health Careers Camp for High School Students Mission The purpose of the Rural Health Careers Camp (RHCC) is to increase rural high school students’ awareness of careers in healthcare and prepare them for the academic and training requirements of future health professions programs. Program participants receive information about health professions training, financial aid, and campus life. Participants also engage in workshops and team-building activities that develop leadership skills and raise self-awareness of careers interests. Current health professions students are recruited to serve as camp counselors, who assist with the operations of the program as well as serve as mentors to the participants, providing insight on their experiences pursuing a health-related degree. Since its inception in 2005, the RHCC has educated over 600 high school students on healthcare professions. Requirements Up to 50 high school students will be selected for the program. We are looking for rural Illinois students who are passionate about helping others and would like to know more about getting into careers that will help them get there. We accept students from the following counties, with preference for underclassmen students: Boone, Bureau, Carroll, DeKalb, Henderson, Henry, JoDaviess, Knox, LaSalle, Lee, Mercer, Ogle, Putnam, Rock Island, Stark, Stephenson, Warren, Whiteside and Winnebago. Seniors and students outside of these counties will be considered, pending availability. Cost The cost of the program is an all-inclusive $100 fee that covers all activities, meals, and housing. The program fee is not due until notification of acceptance. Important Dates The camp will be held June 22-25, 2020 on the Rockford University campus, located at 5050 E. State Street in Rockford, IL. Applications are due Sunday, March 1, 2020 Rural Health Careers Camp Application 2020 Rural Health Careers Camp Brochure Camp Counselor/Camp Counselor Leader Mission Camp counselors and camp counselor leaders will assist in the overall day-to-day operations of the Rural Health Careers Camp; a four-day, overnight educational program for rural high school students interested in learning about healthcare careers. The camp provides more than 25 different hands-on activities and labs led by current healthcare professionals! The role of the camp counselors is to ensure the care and well-being of the campers. They need to assist campers to adjust to new situations, give encouragement and care about each camper as an individual. Two camp counselor leaders will assume additional responsibilities prior to, during, and after the program. Requirements Beginning Sunday, June 21 at 2:30 pm – Thursday, June 25 (afternoon), counselors and counselor leaders are required to reside at Rockford University in the assigned residence halls and participate in all scheduled activities. Applicants must complete sophomore year of undergraduate studies and be in process of pursuing a health-related degree in order to qualify. Preference given to students with previous mentoring experience and rural backgrounds. Additional qualifications and information is outlined in the Camp Counselor Job Description Cost Camp Counselors will receive a stipend of $500 for their time and assistance with the camp. Camp Counselor Leaders will receive a stipend of $700 for assuming additional responsibilities under the direction of the Program Coordinator. Important dates The Rural Health Careers Camp will take place June 22-25, 2020 on the Rockford University campus. A mandatory orientation and room check-in will begin Sunday, June 21 at 2:30pm . Starting at orientation, counselors and counselor leaders are required to reside at Rockford University in the assigned residence halls and participate in all scheduled activities. Applications are due Sunday, March 1, 2020. Camp Counselor Application 2020 For More Information Vicky Rhine, MPH University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professions P: (815) 395-5854 E: [email protected]  www.ncrhp.uic.edu The National Center for Rural Health Professions at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford strives to meet the health care needs of rural residents and their communities in Illinois, around the nation and throughout the world. Certified by the Illinois Board of Higher Education since 2003, this University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford center has programs and collaborative partnerships that have become successful models for education, service, research and policy related to rural health involving multiple health professions. Frequently Asked Questions When will I find out if I am accepted? Will you tell me if I am not accepted? Applications for the 2020 Rural Health Careers Camp are due Sunday, March 1. Applicants will be selected by the following week (March 9-13). A notification of acceptance will be sent through email to those who list an email address on their application. An acceptance packet will be mailed to all selected students the week of March 9. Please allow some time for the packet to arrive. Preference for the camp goes to underclassmen (rising freshmen and sophomores) who have not yet attended the camp and students from rural communities. Students of all grade levels are welcome to apply. Based upon the number of applicants, there may be a waiting list. Students will be notified if they have been placed on the list. Final confirmation will be sent by mid-April for those on the waiting list. What is a typical day like at camp? A typical day begins by 9am. Educational activities are scheduled until dinner, around 5pm. Additional speakers, career workshops, and team building games are scheduled after dinner. Time is reserved in the evening for campers to relax before official “lights out” at 11pm. One evening of camp will be spent in the Rockford community for recreational activities. All but one day of camp activities are spent on the Rockford University campus. The second day of camp typically includes rotations at the UIC Health Sciences Campus- Rockford and an evening activity within the Rockford community. Transportation by coach bus is provided on this day. How many students will be participating? Up to 50 students will be selected to participate in the 2020 camp. Where will I be staying during camp? Will I have a roommate? Camp is hosted on the Rockford University campus at 5050 E. State Street in Rockford. Campers stay in dormitories. Camp counselors are also required to stay in private rooms in the dormitories for supervision and to attend to campers as needed. Dormitories are separated by gender. The dormitories have 2-bedroom and 4-bedroom suites. A Roommate Compatibility Form is sent in acceptance packets to match students by interests. There is also a section on the form to request a particular roommate. When do I need to arrive to and leave camp? Can I drive myself? Check-in begins at 9am on Monday, June 22 at the dormitories. Campers will have time to bring in their items before orientation begins. Check-out will begin by 4pm on Thursday, June 25. Campers MUST be dropped off and picked up by a parent, guardian, or the parent/ guardian of another camper. Please notify us if you will be dropped off or picked up by another camper’s family. What should I bring? A list of suggested items will be sent in camp acceptance packets. Most importantly, students must bring linens for the week (towel, sleeping bag and/or bedding, washcloth, pillow). What should I wear to camp? A list of suggestions will be sent in camp acceptance packets, but we advise checking the weather beforehand because temperatures in June can vary throughout the day. The dormitories and classrooms can also range in temperature.  Campers must wear comfortable, closed-toed sneakers for lab rotations. I can be shy in big groups. Will I still enjoy the experience? Of course! Campers will be assigned a small group and camp counselor for activities throughout camp. Campers will have the chance to work with students of other groups, but these smaller groups will be a great way to get to know a few fellow campers more closely. The majority of former campers say that the camp is a great opportunity to make new friends! Will there be downtime to hang out with other campers? Yes- there will be time each night before official “Lights out” when campers can socialize. One full evening of camp is reserved for recreational activities in the Rockford community. Can you accommodate food allergies or dietary restrictions? The majority of camp meals will be provided at Rockford University’s student dining center. Their staff can accommodate your dietary needs. The Emergency Medical Waiver Form in your acceptance packet includes a section to note your needs in advance. I submitted my acceptance packet and $100 camp fee but plans have changed and I am no longer able to attend. Can I get a refund? Refunds may be provided through Friday, April 24, 2020. After this date, refunds will not be available. Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             