https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/departments/academic-departments/biomedical-sciences/smart-program
SMART Program | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    SMART Program Home / Departments / Academic Departments / Biomedical Sciences / SMART Program  SMART Program amoore35 2020-03-26T13:45:52-05:00 Summer Medical Research Training (SMaRT) Program Program Mission This summer training program aims at offering specialized medical research training to current college students. This program begins in the first or second week of June. The students will complete a two-month intensive training program in medical research at the basic research laboratories of the University of Illinois Rockford campus. During this training, the students are expected to gain significant hands-on experience in planning and successful execution of a medical research project, critically analyze scientific data and present information to a group of judges. The selected student will work closely with various research faculties and staff at the College of Medicine on cutting-edge techniques and its application in biomedical research. After the program, students present their scientific data as a poster and an oral presentation at the College’s SMaRT Scientific Forum. SMaRT is a highly competitive program. Students are selected based on their academic merit, a personal interview, and their interest in pursuing a career in medical science or a related field. The Summer Science Forum is held at the beginning of August.  Students will present their experience through oral presentations and scientific posters. The program provides a stipend and research fellowship to the selected students. Funding for the 2020 SMaRT program is generously provided by the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. Requirements Please attached the following items when submitting your application: Double-spaced 1000-word essay on what you hope to gain from this program and how it will influence your future. Resume including activities, memberships, honors/awards, work experience, and/or previous lab experience. Transcripts submitted electronically or through mail, postmarked by March 20, 2020. Three (3) signed letters of references with addresses. References may email them to [email protected] . Application and supporting documents must be emailed to Janet Stull Snow at [email protected] using subject line: “SMART – YOUR NAME” For any transcript and references that will be mailed, please mail to: Janet Stull Snow University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford Department of Biomedical Sciences 1601 Parkview Avenue Rockford, IL 61107 Cost There is NO cost for this program. You will be paid a stipend provided by the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford. Important Dates June 8–August 7, 2020 Application Deadline: March 20, 2020 SMaRT Internship Orientation: June 8, 2020  Selected students will begin their internship with orientation and training. Orientation begins at 9:00 a.m. SMaRT Science Forum: August 7, 2020  Students will present their experience through oral presentations and scientific posters. Contact Information For more information, please contact Janet Stull Snow at [email protected] or (815) 395-5680. Apply Today Click the button below to download the 2020 SMART Internship Application. Application is due March 20, 2020 . Download Here Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             