https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/education/programs-high-school-college-students/rural-health-programs-college-students
Rural Health Programs for College Student | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Rural Health Programs for College Student Home / Education / Programs for High School and College Students / Rural Health Programs for College Student  Rural Health Programs for College Student caherman 2019-12-21T11:42:43-06:00 Rural Health Programs for College Student Programs Description Click the links below to find out more about the programs and how to apply. Rural Interprofessional Preceptorship Frequently Asked Questions Rural Health Experience (RHE) Contact Information Rural Interprofessional Preceptorship Mission The Six-Week Rural Interprofessional Preceptorship Program is a paid, full-time, rural immersion experience that provides an opportunity for health professions students to learn in a real-world setting that promotes learning through active and organized participation in a specific rural community. The program is designed to convey awareness, knowledge, and appreciation for a variety of health professions disciplines through the process of observing multiple levels of healthcare within the community. Students of the preceptorship are selected for a specific rural site and spend each week individually shadowing different healthcare professionals. In addition to offering experience in a rural healthcare setting, students collaborate in an interprofessional team for classroom sessions and a Community Service Learning (CSL) Project. The CSL Project is the culminating experience of the program and allows students to apply their understanding of healthcare to a community health priority. Requirements Four students of different healthcare backgrounds will be chosen for each site. Undergraduate and graduate students, as well as professional students in health professions programs. Students must have completed sophomore year of undergraduate studies by the time of the RHE. Students must have strong interest in working in a rural community. Students must have reliable transportation while on site. Cost Students must submit all components of the application package and submit a $25 application fee in order to be considered for the program. Basic housing and limited meals are provided to RHE students. Participants receive a $1,500 stipend. Important Dates Sunday, February 9, 2020 is the application deadline. Site locations and dates: Gibson Area Hospital and Health Services, Gibson City, IL: May 27 – July 7, 2020 SSM Health St. Mary’s Hospital, Centralia, IL: June 3 – July 14, 2020 Rural Interprofessional Preceptorship 2020 Application Rural Interprofessional Preceptorship Brochure Frequently Asked Questions These are frequently asked questions regarding preceptorship at Gibson Area Hospital and Health Services (Gibson City, IL) and SSM Health St. Mary’s Hospital (Centralia, IL). Gibson Area Hospital and Health Services (Gibson City, IL) When does the Rural Interprofessional Health Professions Summer Preceptorship take place? The summer preceptorship experience at Gibson Area Hospital & Health Services (GAHHS) in Gibson City will take place from May 27 – July 7, 2020. Where will I be staying? This is an immersion experience, so it is expected that students reside in the community for the full 6 weeks.  GAHHS provides apartment-style housing for students at no cost. The apartments located in Gibson City are furnished and include basic kitchen supplies.  Each student will have his or her own bedroom and two students will share each unit.  Basic bed linens are provided.  Students will need to bring their own towels and wash cloths.  There is a washing machine and dryer in each unit. Is this a paid preceptorship? Yes.  The stipend for this preceptorship is $1,500. Half of this stipend ($750) is disbursed to students at week 3, and the rest ($750) at week 6 (preceptorship end). What will my days be like during the preceptorship? Each week 3-4 days are spent individually shadowing a variety of health professionals in the hospital and/or surrounding community. These shadowing experiences include those of the students’ disciplines and those that are not. This provides an opportunity to witness how interprofessional teams work together in a rural facility as well as how healthcare is delivered at multiple levels. Students will meet once a week with Dr. Sandraluz Lara-Cinisomo, Assistant Professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Faculty Preceptor of the Preceptorship Program. The Faculty Preceptor will lead group discussions on rural health care practice and theory. Students are asked to keep weekly journal reflections related to their shadowing experiences. Additional time each week is scheduled to provide students the opportunity to work on the Community Service Learning (CSL) project. A typical week day will begin at 8:00 a.m. and end at 4:00 p.m., although some adjustments may be made (for example, students shadowing a procedure in surgery may need to start earlier in the morning). This preceptorship is a rural immersion experience – students are expected to reside in the community for 6 weeks. Full participation is required, except in emergency or illness situations. Any exceptions or special circumstances must be requested during the application process. The majority of weekends will be free, although we request students stay in the community to get the most benefit from the experience. No experiences will be scheduled during the 4th of July holiday. Where will the preceptorship take place? Students will shadow health professionals at the GAHHS main hospital as well as health providers’ offices in the GAHHS service area.  Students may be expected to travel to outlying clinics or health department sites, so personal transportation is required. To receive an interprofessional experience that helps students understand multiple levels of care, students will shadow healthcare providers within their field as well as those in other healthcare disciplines. Where will I get my meals? Costs for meals at the GAHHS Harvest Café are included.  The Café is located within the hospital and is open 7 days a week. There are limited options for dinner and on weekends.  Other food costs are covered by the student. Will I have access to Computer/Internet? Access to computers is limited but can be coordinated with AHEC staff.  Internet is available via guest access at the hospital.  There is also access in the apartments. What should I wear? Dress for your experience depends on the work environment. Plan to wear business casual attire unless notified otherwise.  An example of business casual attire for men would include khakis/dress pants, a button-up or collared shirt, and clean dress shoes. An example of business casual attire for women would include a knee-length skirt or dress, dress pants, a modest blouse/top, and clean closed-toed dress shoes. No jeans, shorts, open-toed shoes, short dresses/skirts, tank tops, t-shirts.  Body tattoos must be covered and jewelry worn at a minimum.  A GAHHS identification badge is provided and must be worn at all times during your experience. Who should I contact regarding this particular preceptorship? The below staff are available to answer questions and assist with any needs for the preceptorship: Eileen Woolums, BSN, RN, CDE, EC IL AHEC Director East Central Illinois Area Health Education Center (AHEC)  [email protected] Work: 217-784-4093 Stephanie Lage, Education Assistant East Central Illinois Area Health Education Center (AHEC)  [email protected] Work: 217-784-4076 SSM Health St. Mary’s Hospital (Centralia, IL) When does the Rural Interprofessional Health Professions Summer Preceptorship take place? The summer preceptorship experience at SSM Health St. Mary’s Hospital in Centralia will take place from June 3, 2020 through July 14, 2020. Where will I be staying? This is an immersion experience, so it is expected that students reside in the community for the full 6 weeks.  The hospital provides housing at the Best Western Plus in Centralia and each student will have a suitemate. On-site laundry and workout facilities are available. Is this a paid preceptorship? Yes.  The stipend for this preceptorship is $1,500. Half of this stipend ($750) is disbursed to students at week 3, and the rest ($750) at week 6 (preceptorship end). What will my days be like during the preceptorship? Each week 3-4 days are spent individually shadowing a variety of health professionals in the hospital and/or surrounding community. These shadowing experiences include those of the students’ disciplines and those that are not. This provides an opportunity to witness how inter-professional teams work together in a rural facility as well as how healthcare is delivered at multiple levels. Students will meet once a week with Dr. Laura Payne, PhD, Faculty Advisor from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, who will lead group discussions on rural health care practice and theory. Students are asked to keep weekly journal reflections related to their shadowing experiences. Additional time each week is scheduled to provide students the opportunity to work on the Community Service Learning (CSL) project. A typical week day will begin at 8:00 a.m. and end at 4:00 p.m., although some adjustments may be made (for example, students shadowing a procedure in surgery may need to start earlier in the morning). This preceptorship is a rural immersion experience – students are expected to reside in the community for 6 weeks. Full participation is required, except in emergency or illness situations. Any exceptions or special circumstances must be requested during the application process. The majority of weekends will be free, although we request students stay in the community to get the most benefit from the experience. No experiences will be scheduled during the 4th of July holiday. Where will the preceptorship take place? Students will shadow health professionals at the main hospital as well as healthcare providers’ offices in the hospital service area.  Students may be expected to travel to outlying clinics or health department sites, so personal transportation is required. To receive an interprofessional experience that helps students understand multiple levels of care, students will shadow healthcare providers within their field as well as those in other healthcare disciplines. Where will I get my meals? Meals at the hospital are included. Students are provided with coupons to use in the cafeteria. The cafeteria is located within the hospital and is open Monday-Friday 7:00 AM-6:00 PM; Saturday & Sunday 7:30 AM-2:00 PM.  Meals may be limited on evenings and weekends. Other meal costs are covered by the student. Will I have access to Computer/Internet? There is a guest access at the hospital.  There is also access at the Best Western Plus. What should I wear? Dress Appropriately: Look professional, business casual. No blue jeans, capris, or shorts. Dress modestly and neatly. No sleeveless blouses, shirts, or tops. Body tattoos must be covered. Wear flat, comfortable, closed-toe shoes. No sandals or slingbacks Who should I contact regarding this particular preceptorship? The following staff are available to answer questions and assist with any needs for the preceptorship: Kayla Dunahee, MA- Director AHEC – Human Resources South Central Illinois Area Health Education Center (AHEC)  [email protected] Work: 618-899-1052 Rural Health Experience Mission The Rural Health Experience (RHE) Program is a 3-5 day rural immersion experience for health professions students interested in learning about the delivery of healthcare in a rural community. The RHE program is designed to convey knowledge of a variety of health professions disciplines and create awareness of rural health needs. By shadowing multiple levels within a healthcare center, RHE students learn about the social and health characteristics, needs, and resources of a specific rural community. RHE students shadow professionals of their own discipline as well as professionals of different backgrounds to enhance their understanding of the roles and responsibilities of multiple providers. Students are also encouraged to reflect upon their professional goals as a rural healthcare professional and their interest in the RHE site as a future practice location. Time in the evenings will be available for students to explore the community. Requirements Undergraduate and graduate students, as well as professional students in health professions programs. Students must have completed sophomore year of undergraduate studies by the time of the RHE. Students must have strong interest in working in a rural community. Students must have reliable transportation while on site. Cost Students must submit all components of the application package and submit a $25 application fee in order to be considered for the program. Basic housing and limited meals are provided to RHE students. Important Dates The early summer consideration application deadline is Sunday, March 8, 2020 . Students will coordinate their schedule with their site contact once they are matched with their site. The schedule is based upon the availability of the student and the site. Rural Health Experience 2020 Application Rural Health Experience Brochure For More Information Vicky Rhine, MPH University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professions P: (815) 395-5854 E: [email protected]  www.ncrhp.uic.edu Education MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year M1 Year M2 Year M3 and M4 Years Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Housing Computing Registrar Career Services Scholarship Opportunities Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Health Careers Pathway Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Students SMART Program About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             