https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/research/research-opportunities-students
Research Opportunities for Students | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Research Opportunities for Students Home / Research / Research Opportunities for Students  Research Opportunities for Students aodunsi 2020-01-27T15:05:31-06:00 Research Opportunities for Medical Students Medical students at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford have many opportunities to participate in basic, clinical or community-based research. The Office of Research mentors and connects students to researchers in the surrounding communities and provides assistance with study design, Institutional Review Board (IRB) requirements and statistical analysis.  Additionally, the Office of Research offers several programs specifically targeting students interested in research: James Scholar Program – This is an honors program where selected students are paired with faculty research mentors who guide the students’ independent research project over the course of three to four years. Students are allocated a small budget for research expenses and travel costs associated with presenting their project at a national conference.  Annually, 30 to 35 medical students participate in the program. To see a list of previous James Scholar topics and advisors, please click on the following link: James Scholar Project List 2013 2021 Walter Rice Craig Fellowship Program – The Walter Rice Craig Fellowship Program enables selected medical students to engage in research under the guidance of a UICOMR faculty member the summer between their first and second years. The research must be conducted at the UICOMR.  Students are eligible to receive a $2,700 stipend and are expected to work on their project during the summer months. 2019 Craig Fellowship Call For Proposals MD/MS in Clinical and Translational Science Joint Degree Program – In partnership with OrthoIllinois, UICOMR offers a MD/MS in Clinical and Translational Science (MD-MS/CTS) joint degree program.  This program allows selected students the opportunity to pursue both a Master of Science degree in Clinical and Translational Science and their doctorate in medicine.  Joint degree program participants spend a year, between their third and fourth year of medical school, taking classes through the School of Public Health while working on research to increase their competitiveness for a residency in orthopedics. Similar programs in different disciplines are offered on other University of Illinois campuses and students from all campuses are able to apply for any of the programs.  For more information, contact Sherry Falsetti, PhD ( [email protected] ). Community, Clinical Research and Educational Grant Award – This provides funding for research that improves healthcare delivery or expands the body of knowledge in an area of clinical research, educational research, and/or improves health in the community. The types of projects sought are those that provide the foundation for development of larger grants and/or develop, enhance or expand clinical, education or community research.  Five student awards of up to $2,000 are awarded annually. Educational And Community Health Reserach Grant Application STUDENT Student & Resident Research Travel Award – The Student & Resident Research Travel Award is awarded to a medical student or resident who is presenting as a first author at a national conference.  Up to $1,500 for medical students and $500 for residents in reimbursement for conference registration and travel expenses is awarded. APPLICATION Medical Student Resident Travel Award Rural Health – Medical students interested in conducting research on rural topics should contact Martin MacDowell, DrPH, ( [email protected] ),Michael Glasser, PhD, ( [email protected] ) or Hana Hinkle, PhD, ( [email protected] ) from the National Center for Rural Health Professions. COM Faculty Research Interests – To see a list of COM faculty and their research interests, please click on the following link: 2019 Faculty Research Interests Other Research Opportunities – Learn about opportunities for fellowships, internships, summer programs, scholarships and grants that are available in the United States and abroad by searching the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) web-based searchable database that allows students to search for opportunities by type, specialty, duration, and location: https://apps.aamc.org/cim-cr-web/#/ Summer Research Opportunities for Medical Students: Alex’s Lemonade Stand Foundation (ALSF) – Pediatric Oncology Student Training (POST) Program – The POST program is designed for graduate and undergraduate medical students who have an interest in pediatric oncology research and would like to experience the field first hand.  Students train with a pediatric oncology research mentor.  Students must be able to dedicate at least eight full consecutive weeks to the program and start between May 1 and August 31 (dates may vary depending on the student’s scheduled break).  Maximum stipend is $5,000.  Deadline to apply is mid-February. Website:  www.alexslemonade.org/grants/post . American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) – Jeanne Spurlock Research Fellowship in Drug Abuse and Addiction for Minority Medical Students – AACAP Summer Medical Student Fellowships offer a chance for medical students to explore a career in child and adolescent psychiatry, gain valuable work experience, and meet leaders in the child and adolescent psychiatry field. The fellowship opportunity provides up to $3,500 for 12 weeks of clinical or research training under a child and adolescent psychiatrist mentor. Participants are required to attend the AACAP Annual Meeting in October. (Complimentary registration and travel reimbursement for the Annual Meeting are included in addition to the fellowship stipend).  Deadline to apply is early March. Website:  www.aacap.org/AACAP/AACAP/Awards/Medical_Students_Awards/Summer_Medical_Student_Fellowships.aspx . American Association of Neurological Surgeons Student Summer Research Fellowship – The AANS Medical Student Summer Research Fellowship program is open to medical students in the United States or Canada who have completed one or two years of medical school and wish to spend a summer working in a neurosurgical laboratory, mentored by a neurosurgical investigator who is a member of the AANS and will sponsor the student. Several $2,500 fellowships will be available each year. Deadline early February. Website:  www.nref.org/mssrf.aspx American Association for Thoracic Surgery Summer Scholarships in Cardiothoracic Surgery (AATS) – The AATS Summer Intern Scholarship program introduces the field of cardiothoracic surgery to first- and second-year medical students from North American medical institutions. By providing an opportunity to spend 8 weeks during the summer working in an AATS member’s cardiothoracic surgery department, the summer intern scholarship provides medical students with insight into the scientific investigation and study of cardiothoracic surgery. A grant of $2,500 is provided to successful applicants to underwrite their living expenses during the eight weeks of guidance at the selected host institution. Additionally all awardees will receive complimentary registration to the association’s Annual Meeting and postgraduate courses that takes place in May. Application deadline is mid-December. Website: https://www.aats.org/aatsimis/AATSWeb/Foundation/Programs/Programs/Summer_Intern_Scholarship/Summer_Intern_Scholarship.aspx American Brain Tumor Association Jack and Fay Netchin Medical Student Summer Fellowship Program – The Medical Student Summer Fellowships are $3,000 stipends grants to current medical students wishing to spend a summer conducting brain tumor research with esteemed scientist-mentors. The intent of this program is to motivate talented medical students to pursue a career in neuro-oncology research.  The fellowship start date is determined by the mentor and should extend 10-12 weeks over the summer. Deadline to apply is late January.  Website: www.abta.org/medical-student-summer-fellowships/ American Society for Nutrition Clinical Nutrition Internship Program – The American Society for Nutrition (ASN) is sponsoring nutrition internships for medical students. Each student will work under a recognized authority in clinical nutrition in a U.S. medical school or hospital. The internships will last eight weeks and usually will be scheduled in the summer, but other times may be arranged. Each student will receive a $2,500 stipend for the eight-week internship. Application deadline is mid-March. Website:  https://nutrition.org/students/clinical-nutrition-internship-program/ . American Society of Hematology Minority Medical Student Award Program (MMSAP) – The MMSAP is an eight-12 week summer research experience for underrepresented minority students in their first or second years of medical school.  The program provides a $5,000 stipend and a travel allowance. Deadline to request a mentor is mid-November. Deadline to apply is mid-January. Website: www.hematology.org/awards/medical-student/383.aspx . Arnold P. Gold Foundation Student Summer Fellowships – The Gold Foundation is accepting applications for the Student Summer Fellowship program. The grant award includes a $4,000 stipend for a 10-week period. Projects that do not meet the 10-week requirement will be prorated accordingly. Medical students may apply for either the Research Fellowship or the Service Fellowship program. Deadline to apply is March. Website:  www.gold-foundation.org/programs/student-summer-fellowships/ . ASTRO Minority Summer Fellowship Award – The purpose of the ASTRO Minority Summer Fellowship award is to introduce students from backgrounds that are under-represented in medicine to the discipline of radiation oncology early in their medical education.  The experience is designed to expose students to clinical, basic and translational research questions in radiation oncology.  This is an eight-week program with a stipend provided.  Deadline is early February. Website:  www.astro.org/Patient-Care/Research/Funding-Opportunities/ASTRO-Minority-Summer-Fellowship-Award/ . Betty Ford Center Summer Institute – The Summer Institute for Medical Students is a unique learning experience for students to gain understanding and insight into addictive disease and the recovery process.  Applicants will spend five days experiencing what it is like to be a patient or a family member at the Betty Ford Center. The program provides full scholarships for selected students that cover travel, lodging, tuition, material fees, daily transportation to and from the Center, and most meals.  Priority deadline is early March. Students can’t receive credit for this experience. Website:  www.bettyfordinstitute.org/education/summer-institute-for-medical-students.php . Campagna Summer Research Scholarship in Neurological Surgery- The scholarship supports a 10-week summer semester of research under the supervision of a neurosurgical mentor at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and residence expenses in Portland, Oregon. Students in the first or second year of study at an accredited U.S. medical school are eligible to apply. One scholar will be selected annually. Campagna scholars will receive $5,000 for support of travel to and living expenses in Portland. Scholars are eligible for up to $2,500 additional award to support travel to a national neurosurgical meeting to present the results of their research project, under the supervision of their mentor. The OHSU neurosurgical faculty mentor also receives up to $2,500 to cover research expenses. Medical students with a serious interest in neurological surgery are encouraged to apply. Application deadline is in February. Website:  www.ohsu.edu/xd/education/schools/school-of-medicine/departments/clinical-departments/neurosurgery/news-events/campagna-scholarship.cfm . Children’s Hospital Los Angeles Summer Oncology Fellowship Program – This program is intended to provide the highest quality experience for first-year medical students pursuing interests in oncology research.  Students are paid a weekly stipend of $350 for a minimum of 10 weeks or maximum of 12 weeks.  Deadline to apply is mid-December. Website:  www.chla.org/fellowship/summer-oncology-research-fellowship . Children’s Mercy Hospital Department of Orthopaedics Summer Program – Children’s Mercy Hospitals and Clinics’ Division of Orthopaedics has funded one-to-two scholarships for students to do research with orthopaedic staff and faculty. The purpose of this program is to address important questions that affect the health of Children’s Mercy patients and to introduce promising students to the fields of pediatric orthopaedics and pediatric rehabilitation.  A stipend is granted to students who devote 20 hours per week during the summer months.  Deadline to apply is early December. Website:  https://www.childrensmercy.org/professional-education/fellowships/pediatric-orthopedic-fellowship/summer-scholarship-program/ Chinese American Medical Society (CAMS) – Summer Research Fellowship Program – The Chinese American Medical Society (CAMS) offers scholarships for medical students working on summer research projects. The research can be basic science or clinical in nature but must be completed in a 10-week time frame.  Preferences will be given to proposals studying problems related to health problems of the Chinese. Deadline is March. Website:  https://camsociety.org/fellowship/ Congress of Neurological Surgeons (CSNS/CNS) Medical Student Summer Fellowship in Socioeconomic Research – This fellowship is open to all medical students in the United States and Canada with an interest in the socio-economic issues that impact the field of Neurosurgery. This is an opportunity for medical students to spend eight-10 weeks conducting supervised research on a socio-economic topic that affects neurosurgery today. Stipend is $2,500.  Deadline to apply is mid-February. Website:  www.csnsonline.org/fellowship_student.php .  Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA) – Student Research Award – This program offers financial support for students to spend time performing research on topics relevant to Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), or Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, for a minimum of 10 weeks. Deadline is March 15, annually. Website:  https://www.crohnscolitisfoundation.org/research/grants-fellowships/student-research-awards . David E. Rogers Fellowship Program – The program, through the New York Academy of Medicine, offers fellowships of $4,000 each, for up to five grants, to support summer projects for first-year medical students. The Rogers Fellowship projects are 10 and 12 weeks and are intended to focus on coupling medicine with the needs of underserved or disadvantaged patients or populations.  The content of the Fellowships might range from clinical investigation through community activities or health policy analysis, to activities linking biomedicine, the social infrastructure, and human need.  The deadline for submissions is usually in early January. Website:  www.nyam.org/grants/rogers.html . Endocrine Society Summer Research Fellowships – The Endocrine Society offers Summer Research Fellowships to encourage promising undergraduate students, medical students and students entering graduate school to pursue careers in endocrinology. The Society provides each student with a $4,000 stipend to participate in research projects under the guidance of a Society member for eight to 12 weeks during the summer. Application period is early December. Website: www.endocrine.org/awards/research-fellowship-awards/summer-research-fellowships . Emergency Medicine Foundation (EMF) – Medical Student Research Grant – The EMF/ Society for Academic Emergency Medicine encourages medical students to engage in and to be exposed to emergency medicine research. Emergency Medicine research is broadly defined as scientific investigation designed to furnish new knowledge relevant to emergency medical care. Such investigations may focus on basic science research, clinical research, preventive medicine, epidemiology, cost-containment, and research in emergency medicine teaching and education. Deadline is early February. Website:  https://www.emfoundation.org/grants/apply-for-a-grant/ Fight for Sight – Summer Student Fellowships – Fight for Sight funds basic or clinical research in ophthalmology, vision or related sciences by individuals with limited or no other research funding. Deadline is February 15. Website:  http://www.fightforsight.org/Grants/Guidelines/ Gina M. Finzi Memorial Student Summer Fellowship -The Lupus Foundation of America, Inc. (LFA) is offering Student Summer Fellowships to foster an interest among young researchers in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Undergraduate, graduate and medical students are eligible to apply. Student summer fellowships are awarded annually Amount of award is $4,000. The LFA Medical/Scientific Advisory Council will review all applications. Application deadline is early April. Website:  https://www.lupus.org/career-development-for-researchers/gina-m-finzi-student-fellowship . Guggenheim Family Neurosurgery Scholarship – The Guggenheims established the Guggenheim Family Neurosurgery Scholarship with the residual estate of their late son, Jean-Pierre, to provide funding for medical students who are interested in pursuing Neurosurgery training through an annual summer research program. Deadline is the end of March. Website:  https://www.pennmedicine.org/departments-and-centers/neurosurgery/research/clinical-research-division/student-research-program/the-guggenheim-family-neurosurgery-scholarship Harvard Catalyst Visiting Research Internship Program (VRIP) – is an eight-week mentored, summer research program designed to enrich medical students’ interest in research and health-related careers. In addition to a mentored clinical/translational research experience, VRIP students will participate in weekly seminars with Harvard faculty focusing on topics such as research, methodology, health disparities, ethics and career paths. Eligible participants are first- and second-year medical students, particularly underrepresented minority and/or disadvantaged individuals in good standing from accredited U.S. medical schools and U.S. Citizens. The program provides a stipend and transportation reimbursement of up to $400 toward the cost of traveling to and from Boston. Deadline is mid-January. Website: https://mfdp.med.harvard.edu/dcp-programs/medicalgraduate/visiting-research-internship-program Harvard-Longwood Short-Term Research Training in Vascular Surgery (NIH-T35) – Harvard Medical School is offering student summer research fellowships in vascular surgery. Seven student research fellowships are available for 10-12 weeks of summer research training in molecular and cell biology, biomechanics, coagulation and thrombosis, and angiogenesis, with a focus on clinically relevant problems such as atherogenesis, intimal hyperplasia, prosthetic/host interactions and thrombosis. This training program is designed to provide medical students with an initial exposure to vascular surgery research. Stipend available. Deadline to apply is mid-January. Website: https://vascular.org/research-quality/research-opportunities#harvard-research Heart, Lung and Blood (HLB) Summer Research Program- The Heart, Lung and Blood Summer Research Program through Case Western Reserve University is designed to engage 12 diverse undergraduates and 8 medical students in state-of-the-art biomedical research in cardiovascular, pulmonary, hematological and sleep disorders research. Students who belong to groups underrepresented in biomedical sciences are eligible to apply.  Stipend of $1,750 per month provided, minimum of two months.  Deadline to apply is March 1. Website: http://casemed.case.edu/gradprog/summer.cfm . Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) – GERM – The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) Foundation and HIV Medicine Association initiative — G.E.R.M. was developed to provide grants to medical students to support a longitudinal mentored clinical learning and/or research project for up to a year, on infectious diseases-related topics including HIV under the mentorship of an IDSA or HIVMA member. This program will replace the IDSA Medical Scholars and HIVMA Medical Students Programs. Deadline to apply is early February. Website:  https://www.idsafoundation.org/our-initiatives/g-e-r-m/ Johns Hopkins University Summer Employment – Johns Hopkins University is recruiting qualified medical students to work in their summer program. Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Talented Youth provides academically talented young students aged 8-16 the opportunity to take rigorous summer courses in mathematics, science, computer science, humanities and writing. Medical students during the summer between their first and second years are needed for the position of health assistant. The health assistant is responsible for maintaining the medical records of all of the students at the site, escorting children to clinics and emergency rooms as needed, and helping to administer prescribed medications and basic first aid to the students. Although the job does not require diagnostic skills, an interest in medicine is certainly an asset. Health assistants regard their summer experience as a challenging, rewarding, and educational opportunity (stipend provided). Website:  www.cty.jhu.edu/summer/employment . KU Cancer Center Student Summer Research Training Program – The University of Kansas Cancer Center will be sponsoring a Student Summer Research Training Program this summer for a maximum of four students (college undergrad, graduate or medical students).  The project will span for eight weeks, beginning in early June until the end of July and a stipend of $3,000 is provided.  Student must submit an application and a minimum of one letter of recommendation (preferably from mentor or other teacher).  Mentors must be a current Cancer Center Member and must submit a research project for consideration.  It is advisable that a mentor and student interested in working together submit their Project Descriptions and Student applications at the same time.  Notices will go out in January to all Cancer Center members, and the application deadline is in early February. Students interested in the summer program should contact Susan Harp at [email protected] to obtain an application. Mayo Clinic Summer Research Fellowship – The Summer Research Fellowship was created to address the need for clinical investigators from diverse backgrounds. Health needs of U.S. minority populations have been studied inadequately, due in part to the shortage of clinical investigators belonging to underrepresented groups. Although the number of clinicians belonging to underrepresented groups has increased, there has not been a corresponding increase in clinical investigators. Members of groups that the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine considers underrepresented are eligible to apply. The program lasts eight to 10 weeks with a stipend provided. Deadline to apply is February 1. Website:  https://college.mayo.edu/academics/residencies-and-fellowships/summer-research-fellowship/ M.D. Anderson Cancer Center Summer Research Program – The 10-week program provides interested students with an opportunity to participate in biomedical research experiences related to oncology and to be introduced to the clinical problems presented by cancer patients. At the end of their summer experience, students will submit their research data in journal article format. Participants in the program receive a stipend of $5,000 for the 10-week period. Application deadline is usually in mid January. Website : www.mdanderson.org/education-training/degrees-programs/summer-research-programs/first-year-medical-student-program.html . Medical Student Anesthesia Research Fellowship (MSARF) – Medical Student Anesthesia Research Fellowships provide students with a challenging and rewarding experience that exposes them to the opportunities within the medical field of anesthesiology and research.  The fellowship provides medical students with an eight-week research experience within an academic anesthesiology department and a $400 per week stipend. Deadline to apply is late January. Website:  http://faer.org/programs/msarf-summer-program/ . Medical Student Research Program in Diabetes – is sponsored by the National Institutes of Health through the NIDDK and allows medical students to conduct research under the direction of an established scientist in the areas of diabetes, hormone action, physiology, islet cell biology or obesity at an institution with one of the NIDDK-funded Research Centers during the summer between the first and second year or second and third year of medical school. The Program helps students gain an improved understanding of career opportunities in biomedical research and a comprehensive understanding of diabetes, its clinical manifestations and its unsolved problems. Deadline is early March. Website: https://www.vumc.org/niddk/ Medical Student Summer Clinical Externship (MSSCE) – The Medical Student Summer Clinical Externship (MSSCE) program has been developed for medical students with a strong desire for clinical experience in the field of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (PM&R) and who are eagerly seeking opportunities to see patients.  This program aims to provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient clinical exposure and to allow students to explore the human side of patient care and the psychosocial environments their patients face through an eight-week summer externship with an attached stipend of $4,000. Deadline is early February. Website : https://www.physiatry.org/general/custom.asp?page=MSSCE . Medical Student Training in Aging (MSTAR) Program – Administered by AFAR and the National Institute on Aging (NIA), the MSTAR Program provides medical students with an enriching experience in aging-related research and geriatrics, with the mentorship of top experts in the field. This program introduces students to research and academic experiences early in their training that they might not otherwise have during medical school.  Students participate in an eight- to 12- week structured research, clinical, and didactic program in geriatrics, appropriate to their level of training and interests.  Deadline to apply is late January. Website:  www.afar.org/research/funding/mstar . Mellinckrodt Institute of Radiology Summer Program – Washington University/Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology co-sponsored 10-week, full-time program provides an introduction to current radiological sciences research. Participants develop close interaction between clinical and research sections for possible correlation of biological concepts and clinical activities.  Applicants selected will receive a $5,000 stipend. Deadline is late January. Website:  www.mir.wustl.edu/research/summer-research-program .  Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center’s Medical Student Summer Fellowship Program – is a research program for first- and second-year students at US medical schools who are interested in careers as physician-scientists in the field of oncology and/or related biomedical sciences. Funded since 1977 by the National Cancer Institute, this program grants students the opportunity to conduct basic laboratory or clinical research under the mentorship of MSK faculty. Deadline is December. Website:  https://www.mskcc.org/hcp-education-training/medical-students/summer-fellowship National Injury Research Training Program – The Center for Injury Research and Policy in the Research Institute at Nationwide Children’s Hospital will host its annual Injury Research Program for medical students.  Students selected to participate will receive a $3,000 stipend to help cover travel and living expenses.  The training period is eight weeks.  Students will work 40 hours per week from June to early August (some flexibility on these dates is possible).  Deadline to apply is mid-January. Website: www.nationwidechildrens.org/cirp-national-student-injury-research-training-program . National Institutes of Health (NIH) Summer Internship Program in Biomedical Research (SIP) –  Summer programs at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) provide an opportunity to spend a summer working at the NIH side-by-side with some of the leading scientists in the world, in an environment devoted exclusively to biomedical research.  Internships cover a minimum of eight weeks, with students generally arriving at the NIH in May or June. Website : www.training.nih.gov/programs/sip/ . North American Society on Thrombosis and Hemostasis (NASTH) – Research Fellowship. The NASTH Research Fellowship is an eight-10 week program aimed at introducing students to the field of hemostasis and thrombosis by supporting the students’ work on targeted research projects. Deadline early February. Website:  https://www.nasth.org/page/ResearchFellowship Pediatric Bioethics Internship  – The Children’s Mercy Hospital Bioethics Center offers two summer internships for medical students with a demonstrated interest in pediatrics or bioethics. Interns will conduct mentored research on a self-identified topic of interest. Past topics: disorders of sexual development, treatment decisions in hypoplastic left heart syndrome, policy issues for children hospitals under the Affordable Care Act. A summer stipend of $2500 for six weeks is provided. The program begins early-mid June. If interested, send a one-page personal statement, CV and names of two references to Mary Ellen Hudson at [email protected] . Website:  https://www.childrensmercy.org/health-care-providers/bioethics-center/ Radiation Oncology Student Summer Research Training Program – The KUMC Department of Radiation Oncology is sponsoring an eight-week summer research training program for one student (college undergrad, graduate or medical student).  The project will run from June – July, and a $2,000 stipend is provided. Deadline to apply is March 1.  For more information and application, contact Mindi TenNapel at [email protected] Reading Hospital – Student Summer Training Program – The Reading Hospital is offering six-week internships in our Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, Obstetrics/Gynecology and Infectious Disease Departments. We have seven internships available — two interns will be based in Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, and Obstetrics Gynecology and will spend half of their time in research and half as clinical observers; one intern will spend the majority of time in Infectious Disease research, but will also participate in didactic sessions. Deadline is early March. Website:  https://reading.towerhealth.org/academics/internships-training/student-summer-training-program/ Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago Summer Externship Program – This is an eight-week Summer Externship program, sponsored by the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of Northwestern University Medical School. The externship program is held at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC), located in downtown Chicago at the McGaw Medical Center. This program offers a unique and early clinical exposure related to the care of persons with acute and chronic disabilities for comprehensive rehabilitation. Primarily, students will assist in the clinical management of patients admitted to RIC. In addition, students will participate in a research project in a rehabilitation related field. There will be ongoing didactic and in-service efforts directed at the M1-M2 student level. The program usually begins in June and continues through July. Each student will be awarded a $3,000 stipend for participation in this eight-week program. Deadline to apply is early January. Website:  www.feinberg.northwestern.edu/sites/pmr/education/extninfo.html . Rheumatology Research Foundation (RRF) – Medical Student Research Preceptorship – The purpose of the preceptorship program is to introduce medical and graduate students to rheumatology‐related health care by supporting a full‐time clinical or research experience in the broad area of rheumatic disease. Deadline early November. Website:  https://www.rheumresearch.org/preceptorships#StudentPrecep Robert L. Mayock Student Research Fellowship at Penn – The Robert L. Mayock Student Research Fellowship provides opportunities for medical students and undergraduate students in their senior year of college to work full-time for eight-10 weeks during the summer/fall in one of the research laboratories of the Allergy, Pulmonary and Critical Care Division of the University of Pennsylvania. Deadline to apply is early March. Website : https://www.pennmedicine.org/departments-and-centers/department-of-medicine/divisions/pulmonology-allergy-and-critical-care/research-and-clinical-trials/mayock-research-fellowship Roswell Park Cancer Institute Summer Oncology Research Program – Expand your horizons in the care and treatment of the cancer patient by participating in state-of-the-art clinical research. Explore the mysteries of the cancer cell by participating in a basic science research program, or both. Special emphasis is placed on cancer prevention through lectures and practical experiences. The program offers a stipend for students to engage in research for an eight-week period. The program runs June-July, however dates may be changed to accommodate student schedules. Application deadline is early January. Website:  https://www.roswellpark.org/research Silberstein Pediatric Orthopaedics Research Fellowship at Johns Hopkins – The Silberstein Research Fellowship program is for students in the first year of medical school seeking an early start to clinical experience in the orthopaedic field. This is a two-to three-month commitment during the summer. Fellows will work with the pediatric orthopaedic surgery faculty and the Poggi research fellow to bring a project to substantial completion and eventual publication. Deadline is early March. Website:  https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/orthopaedic-surgery/education/fellowships/peds-ortho-med-student.html Simon Kramer Society Summer Externship in Radiation Oncology – The Simon Kramer Society Externship in Radiation Oncology, awarded annually, provides a unique opportunity for up to two medical students to obtain a six-week experience in Radiation Oncology. Stipend provided in addition to partial travel allowance. Date of externship is flexible during the summer (May – July). Stipend: $750, in addition to partial travel allowance. Applicants must be first or second year medical students in good standing. Deadline is late January. Website:  www.jefferson.edu/university/jmc/departments/radiation_oncology/education/Simon_Kramer_Externship.html . Siteman Cancer Center at Washington University School of Medicine and Barnes-Jewish Hospital – Siteman Cancer Center invites undergraduate, graduate and medical students to participate in the Leah Menshouse Springer Summer Opportunities Program. This program is designed to provide participants with hands-on cancer research experience for 10 weeks over the summer (May-August). Opportunities range from basic science research to clinical research to prevention/control and population research. Stipend provided. Deadline to apply is mid-January. Website : www.siteman.wustl.edu/contentpage.aspx?id=254 . St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital – NIH/NCI-funded Pediatric Oncology Education (POE) Program – The Pediatric Oncology program offers a unique opportunity for students preparing for careers in medicine to gain biomedical and oncology research experience.  Medical students will work in clinical research with physicians and staff in areas such as chart review, record screening and examination, data collection and entry and may also apply to attend clinics and observe procedures.  POE students must be a United States citizen, non-citizen national, or possess a visa permitting permanent residence in the United States. Medical student trainees spend 10-11 weeks in the program. Participants will receive $480/week and pre-paid group housing is provided for students coming from outside the Memphis metropolitan area. Members of under-represented ethnic minority groups and women are particularly encouraged to apply. Deadline for applications is January 1. Website:  www.stjude.org/poe . Summer Oncology Research Fellowship Program – SORFP, sponsored by CHLA and USC (Children’s Hospital Los Angeles and at the USC Keck School of Medicine) for more than 30 years is being offered for the Summer. Fellowships have traditionally gone to students from universities and medical schools throughout the United States. Prior candidates have been exceptional students; many are now in academic positions, including full-time cancer research. This program is intended to provide the highest quality experience for first-year medical students pursuing interests in oncology research. Stipend Provided.  Application deadline is mid-December. Website:  https://www.chla.org/fellowship/summer-oncology-research-fellowship Telluride Patient Safety Summer Camps – Travel to the Rocky Mountains for a week of education and discussion on patient safety and quality.  The Telluride Science Research Center(TSRC) has been home to the Telluride Patient Safety Education Roundtable & Student/Resident Summer Camps for ten years, and continues to provide excellent lodging resources and a classroom environment conducive to relaxed learning that allows for both the creativity and openness that stimulates real change.  Students who are excepted receive a full scholarship covering room, board, transportation voucher and all educational costs.  Application deadline is January 15. Website : www.telluridesummercamp.com . University Of Maryland School Of Medicine’s SPORT program – The Summer Program in Obesity, Diabetes and Nutrition Research Training (SPORT) program offers a 10-week program of mentored research training for medical students during the summer between the first and second year of medical school.  Sponsored by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) through the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), this program offers medical students the opportunity to conduct basic science or clinical research in the areas of obesity, diabetes, nutrition and related diseases.  In the summer, we will match 12 students with one of our renowned faculty members.  At the conclusion of the program, students will participate in a research symposium and have an opportunity to meet other summer research students and mentors and to present their work.  Deadline is mid-January. Website:  https://www.medschool.umaryland.edu/sport/ Vanderbilt Student Research Training Program – The Vanderbilt Student Research Training Program (SRTP) is sponsored by the National Institutes of Health and allows medical students to conduct research under the direction of an established scientist in the areas of diabetes, obesity, kidney disease, or digestive disease at Vanderbilt during the summer between first and second year or second and third year of medical school.  Program offers career advice and clinical and research seminars about diabetes, obesity, kidney disease, or digestive disease. Stipend $2,000 per month. Deadline to apply is in February. Website : www.vanderbiltsrtp.org . Walter Rice Craig Fellowship Program – The Walter Rice Craig Fellowship Program enables medical students to engage in research under the guidance of a UICOMR faculty member the summer between their M1 and M2 years.  The research must be conducted at UICOMR.  Students are eligible to receive a $2,700 stipend and are expected to work on their project during the summer months.  Students present their project at UICOMR’s Annual Research Day. Deadline to apply is March. Website:  https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/research/research-opportunities-students/ Research Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Getting Started IRB Required Online Training Research in Clinics IRB Guidebook Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Radiation Safety Data Safety Management Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Biomedical Research National Center for Rural Health Professionals Health Policy and Social Science Research Core Faculty Members Annual Research Day About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             