https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/research/office_of_research/biologic-resource-committee-brc
Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Home / Research / Office of Research / Biologic Resource Committee (BRC)  Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) tlowery1 2019-06-26T13:48:35-05:00 Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Federal regulations require any institution that uses animals in research to adhere to strict procedures to insure the humane treatment for all research animals. The Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW) provides guidance and understanding concerning the Public Health Service (PHS) Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. The Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) at COM-R oversees all animal protocols to ensure compliance with these regulatory agencies. For all information concerning submission and protocol review, please use the College’s intranet services. All new investigators get initial training from the laboratory animal care supervisor who can be reached at 815.395.5796. Supplemental educational training may also be conducted through the online training resource developed by the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research. This training is found on the UIC Learning Management System. To receive CE credit for these training modules from HSPP, please email a copy of the certificate to the Office for the Protection of Research Subjects AND Patrick McIntyre at the COM-R.  In addition, animal specie specific supplemental training modules may be accessed at: Collaborative IRB Training Initiative (CITI) The CITI web-based training course is a collaborative effort between multiple institutions. It is hosted by the University of Miami. To Register: Go to www.citiprogram.org and select “Register for the CITI Course.” Under “All Others” select: University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford. Register for CITI by establishing your unique username and password. Enter your demographic information. After you submit your demographic information, you will be asked to select the focus of your research. If your research focuses mainly in the behavioral or social sciences, you should choose the Social/Behavioral modules (SBR). If your research focuses mainly in the biomedical or biological sciences, you should choose the Biomedical modules (Biomed). For assistance please contact Research Support Services at (815) 395-5942. Research Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Getting Started IRB Required Online Training Research in Clinics IRB Guidebook Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Radiation Safety Data Safety Management Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Biomedical Research National Center for Rural Health Professionals Health Policy and Social Science Research Core Faculty Members Annual Research Day About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             