https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/research/office_of_research
Office of Research | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Office of Research Home / Research / Office of Research  Office of Research aodunsi 2019-06-26T12:49:23-05:00 Office of Research Created in 2015 as a result of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford’s strategic planning process, the Office of Research’s mission is to increase student and faculty research productivity through the development of infrastructure and the provision of research opportunities needed for students and faculty.  SERVICES Student research mentoring and connecting students to researchers Consultation on study design Grant writing assistance Statistical assistance Guidance with Institutional Review Board (IRB) applications and approval Resources for potential funding mechanisms Ask a Biostatistician Kayéromi Gomez, PhD, Biostatistician The biostatistician position is new to the UICOMR campus. As Biostatistician for the Office of Research, Dr. Kayéromi Gomez provides support and assistance to faculty and students who are conducting research in the College of Medicine and the College of Pharmacy in the areas of study design, data analysis and interpretation of results. The purpose of the “ Ask a Biostatistician ” form is to provide a venue for medical and pharmacy students and faculty the opportunity to ask Dr. Gomez a biostatistics or research question that may need a quick answer. In this way, students and faculty are not limited to having to meet in-person on certain dates and times with Dr. Gomez to get help. If more in-depth help is needed, please email Dr. Gomez ( [email protected] ) to schedule a meeting to discuss your biostatistics/research needs. Ask a Biostatistician Form PROGRAMS James Scholar Program – The James Scholar Program is an honors program targeting the top 25% of medical students.  Over the course of three years, selected students, in partnership with a faculty research mentor, pursue and complete an independent research project based on their unique interests.  Students are allotted a small budget for research expenses as well as travel costs associated with presenting their project at a national conference.  Annually, 30 to 35 medical students participate in the program. Research Day – Research Day is held annually on the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford. The event highlights the research and scholarly activities of students, residents and faculty of the College of Medicine and affiliated partners.  Research Day is coordinated by the College of Medicine Rockford committee on research. Student & Resident Research Travel Award – The Student & Resident Travel Award is awarded to a medical student or resident who is presenting as a first author at a national conference.  Up to $1,000 in reimbursement in conference registration and travel expenses. Walter Rice Craig Fellowship – The Walter Rice Craig Fellowship Program enables two medical students to engage in research under the guidance of a University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford (UICOMR) faculty member the summer between their M1 and M2 year.  The research must be conducted at UICOMR.  Students are eligible to receive a $2,700 stipend and are expected to work on their project during the summer months.  Students will present their project at the UICOMR’s annual Research Day. FUNDING MECHANISMS Bridge Funding – Bridge funding is intended to provide short term financial support to sustain the research programs, laboratories, and momentum of productive researchers during funding gaps to give them a chance to regain extramural funding.  Bridge funding is targeted to all members of the faculty of the College of Medicine Rockford who have established projects that demonstrate high probability of securing extramural funding. Bridge Funding Guidelines Basic Research Bridge Funding Application Clinical, Educational & Community Health Research Grant – The purpose of the Clinical, Educational and Community Health Research Grant is to fund clinical, educational, and community research that will improve health care delivery or expand the body of knowledge in an area of clinical research, educational research and/or improve the health of the community.  The program is also intended to foster collaboration across disciplines, among faculty and students and with community organizations.  (We understand this may vary greatly depending upon the project.)  The types of projects sought are those that will provide the foundation for development of larger grants and/or develop, enhance, or expand clinical, educational or community research.  These grants are available to both faculty and students. Faculty Application Instructions Student Application Instructions CECHR Grant Application FACULTY AND STAFF Sherry A. Falsetti, PhD , assistant dean of research, professor and director, Division of Health Policy & Social Science Research, Department of Family and Community Medicine.  Dr. Falsetti provides overall direction to the Office of Research and administers the programs and internal grant funding mechanisms of the Office.  She also chairs the James Scholar Program. E: [email protected] Tel: (815) 395-5665 Lori Dredske , administrative aide/research coordinator. Lori coordinates the Office of Research programs, grant funding mechanisms and provides administrative support for the Office. E: [email protected] Tel: (815) 395-5733 Kayeromi Gomez, PhD , biostatistician.  Dr. Gomez provides support and assistance to faculty and students who are conducting research in the College of Medicine and the College of Pharmacy in the areas of study design, data analysis and interpretation of results. E: [email protected] Tel: (815) 395-5639 Patrick McIntryre, MS , assistant director of research, review and education. Patrick oversees the IRB on the Rockford campus and connects students interested in conducting research with community faculty. E: [email protected] Tel: (815) 395-5942 Vicki Weidenbacher-Hoper, MSW , grant development specialist. Vicki provides support and assistance to faculty looking for funding and help with writing grant proposals. E: [email protected] Tel: (815) 395-5669 For more information contact: Lori Dredske Office of Research Tel. (815) 395-5733 [email protected]  Research Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Getting Started IRB Required Online Training Research in Clinics IRB Guidebook Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Radiation Safety Data Safety Management Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Biomedical Research National Center for Rural Health Professionals Health Policy and Social Science Research Core Faculty Members Annual Research Day About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             