https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/patient-care/university-thyroid-in-pregnancy-clinic
UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Home / Patient Care / UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic  UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic tlowery1 2019-06-27T10:45:54-05:00 UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Women with thyroid disease who are or who want to become pregnant, as well as women who develop thyroid disease during or right after pregnancy, can see a renowned doctor who specializes in thyroid disease in pregnancy at the UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic in Rockford. Dr. Alex Stagnaro-Green sees patients at this clinic that is operated by the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford, 1601 Parkview Ave. A family physician, obstetrician or endocrinologist usually will refer patients to see Dr. Stagnaro-Green and he will work with that physician to ensure coordinated care. Patients seeking a second opinion may also make an appointment with Dr. Stagnaro-Green. The UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic accepts Medicare and Medicaid as well as most insurance plans. Patients should check with their insurance plans before their visit about their coverage. Appointments To schedule an appointment with Dr. Stagnaro-Green, call (815) 395-5870 and the Student Health and Wellness receptionist will assist you.  Directions  The UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic is located at the UIC Health Sciences Campus-Rockford at 1601 Parkview Ave. From the Parkview Ave. driveway, take the first left to enter the clinic parking area. The clinic entrance is located under the red awning. Map About Dr. Alex Stagnaro-Green Dr. Alex Stagnaro-Green Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD, MHPE, MHA, is dean of the College of Medicine Rockford and professor of medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, and medical education. Dr. Stagnaro-Green is a renowned clinician-scientist and academic leader with extensive experience in clinical research and public service in the field of thyroid and pregnancy. Dr. Stagnaro-Green graduated from Mount Sinai School of Medicine in 1983. Following a residency in internal medicine at New Jersey Medical School, he completed a fellowship in endocrinology and metabolism at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. An internationally known researcher in the field of thyroid disease and pregnancy, Dr. Stagnaro-Green reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association in 1990 the seminal finding that linked thyroid antibody positivity in euthyroid women to a doubling of the rate of spontaneous miscarriage. His endocrine research focuses on thyroid antibodies and miscarriage, the relationship between thyroid dysfunction and preterm delivery, and postpartum thyroiditis. He has served as chairman of the American Thyroid Association task force on thyroid and pregnancy. In 2011, Dr. Stagnaro-Green was the chair and lead author on clinical guidelines on thyroid and pregnancy which have been endorsed worldwide, including the European Thyroid Association, Latin American Thyroid Association, and the Australian Thyroid Association. He has published 100 peer-reviewed articles, editorials and book chapters and has served as section editor of two books. About Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Learn more about thyroid disease and pregnancy at https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/pregnancy-thyroid-disease . UI Health Patient Portal UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic 1601 Parkview Avenue Rockford, IL 61107-1897 Tel: (815) 395-5870 Patient Care UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Pregnancy Services Your Health Care Team UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             