https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/patient-care/local-facilities-and-affiliates
Local Affiliations | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Local Affiliations Home / Patient Care / Local Affiliations  Local Affiliations tlowery1 2019-06-27T10:42:04-05:00 Local Affiliations Affiliations and Community Partners The College of Medicine Rockford maintains affiliations with hospitals and organizations worldwide. We are dedicated to actively promoting and becoming involved with organizations that are working to make a difference. Through these partnerships, we are able to extend our reach and offer students diverse training opportunities. These partnerships include: Local Hospitals and Organizations Our medical students receive their training at community institutions where our faculty physicians provide university-level healthcare to patients. RMED Collaborating Hospitals During their fourth year, students in the RMED program participate in a 16-week preceptorship experience that takes place at one of 25 rural collaborating hospitals across Illinois. Local Hospitals and Organizations RMED Collaborating Hospitals Local Hospitals and Organizations OSF Saint Anthony Medical Center  OSF Saint Anthony Medical Center , a Level 1 Trauma Center, is a 254-bed tertiary care facility that serves a 10-county area for services including trauma, orthopedics, neurosurgery and cardiac surgery. Saint Anthony is the site of the Regional Burn Unit, Regional Heart Institute, Illinois Neurosciences Institute, and the Saint Anthony College of Nursing and School of Medical Technology. The Center also offers the Northern Illinois Mobile Intensive Care Program for paramedic training. Its latest addition, a Center for Cancer Care, offers radiation therapy, chemotherapy, physician offices and support services. Mercyhealth Located in Rockford, Illinois, Mercyhealth offers a full “continuum of care” – from wellness and preventive services to primary, outpatient, hospital and home care – and many of their physicians have faculty appointments and provide training and instruction to College of Medicine Rockford students. SwedishAmerican Health System  SwedishAmerican Health System : A Division of UW Health, has a 357-bed non-profit full-service hospital centrally located in Rockford, Illinois, and is affiliated with the College of Medicine’s Family Practice Residency Program. Founded in 1911, the hospital serves greater Rockford, northern Illinois and southern Wisconsin. Specialty programs include their heart hospital, cancer center, psychiatry and mental health, general and specialty pediatrics, geriatrics, women’s services, orthopedics, occupational health and gastroenterology. Pinecrest Community  Pinecrest Community in Mt. Morris, Illinois, is a nursing home and retirement facility that serves nearly 200 older adults. The community includes Pinecrest Village, which provides 48 congregate living apartments and nine cottages for independent living, and Pinecrest Manor, a 121-bed nursing home offering Alzheimer’s care. Rockford Health Council Rockford Health Council is a collaborative, community-based non-profit organization. Located at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford, Rockford Health Council conducts periodic needs assessments, works across the community to mobilize organizations and individuals to address defined health priority issues, and pursues public policy advocacy.  For more information visit www.rockfordhealth.org . Carrie Lynn Children’s Center Located in Rockford, Illinois, the Carrie Lynn Children’s Center serves as a central location for providing front-end services needed by child victims of sexual and severe physical abuse. The main goal of the Center is to help reduce trauma by improving the efficiency of the systems that respond to cases of child abuse. Operating within the Center, the Children’s Advocacy Project (CAP) coordinates investigations and prosecutions of child sexual abuse and serious physical abuse cases. The University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford’s Medical Evaluation Response Initiative Team (MERIT) Program is committed to helping the mission of the Carrie Lynn Center by providing medical examinations to abused children. For more information contact: Kathryn A. Pomahac Executive Director Carrie Lynn Children’s Center 826 N. Main Street Rockford, Illinois 61103 tel. (815) 319-4150 Fax. (815) 319-4151 RMED Collaborating Hospitals Patient Care UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Pregnancy Services Your Health Care Team UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             