https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/patient-care/ui_health_patient_portal
UI Health Patient Portal | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    UI Health Patient Portal Home / Patient Care / UI Health Patient Portal  UI Health Patient Portal tlowery1 2019-06-27T09:46:57-05:00 UI Health Patient Portal Patients of the UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center and UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic can use the UI Health Patient Portal to: Communicate with your health care team directly Review some of your medical records such as medications, immunizations, allergies and other health issues View recent after-visit summaries from your last clinic visit Request an appointment and view some scheduled appointments View your lab results Renew prescriptions and view prescription information START YOUR PORTAL ACCOUNT Option 1 – During your next visit to UI Health: Our service desk will ask for your e-mail address and a one-time-use security question to start your account. Watch for a Patient Portal e-mail from [email protected] The subject line will be “Welcome to UI Health Patient Portal.” Click on the link in the e-mail, and log in with the information you provided above. (NOTE: The invite link in this e-mail expires after 90 days.) Update your information, and then click the Create an Account button. Congratulations! You now have access to the UI Health Patient Portal. Option 2 – Self-enrollment from anywhere: If you have your Medical Record Number (MRN) or if we have your e-mail address on file, you can sign up for the portal remotely. Your MRN will be printed on your visit summary and discharge paperwork. You must be over age 18 to enroll. Click here to register online Complete the online form (all fields are required). If using an MRN number to register, update all your information on the second page of the form, then click the Create an Account button. If you use an e-mail address to register, you must use the same one we have on file. You can only change the one we have on file during a clinic visit. Once you submit the form, check your e-mail for a message titled “ Welcome to UI Health Patient Portal.” Click the link in the email to update your information, then click the Create an Account button. Congratulations! You now have access to the UI Health Patient Portal. For help logging in to My UI Health or to reset your password, call 877.621.8014 If you need don’t have access to the UI Health Patient Portal but need medical records or copies of your medical records, x-rays, scans, or other tests, contact the Health Information Management (HIM) department: • Chicago HIM:  (312) 996-3350 • Rockford Region HIM: (815) 972-1069 Click here log in to UI Health Patient Portal. Patient Care UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Pregnancy Services Your Health Care Team UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             