https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/giving/planned-giving
Planned Giving | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Planned Giving Home / Giving / Planned Giving  Planned Giving tlowery1 2020-02-17T16:38:07-06:00 Planned Giving Options Just as there are many ways your IGNITE support can enhance the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford (the “College”), there are a variety of giving methods that will help you align your financial and philanthropic goals. We can work with you and your advisors to develop a giving plan that best fits your objectives. Charitable giving decisions involve careful consideration of assets to be transferred and instruments used to make gifts. We invite you to review the information below to learn some common planned gift methods. (Please note that the University of Illinois Foundation and the College encourage all donors to consult with their personal tax, financial and/or legal advisors to discuss the implications associated with their decisions. This material on this site and associated links is intended to be used only for informational purposes.) Regardless of which method you choose though, please note that all gifts should be made to the University of Illinois Foundation for the benefit of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford. Gifts of Securities Publically traded stock and mutual funds with large unrealized profits (long-term capital gains) make great gift options. The profit on your donated securities will escape taxation and your charitable deduction will be the full market value of your investment as long as you have held your security for more than one year. Your gifts of securities may be deducted up to 30 percent of adjusted gross income with a five-year carryover for excess deductions. Please contact the Foundation’s Cash Receipts Office at [email protected] or (217) 244-0352 for updated gifts of securities delivery instructions. Charitable IRA Rollover After you have attained the age of 70 ½, you are permitted to transfer up to $100,000 annually from your IRA to a qualified charity like the Foundation. The funds must come directly from your IRA provider with the check written to the Foundation. The direct transfer has two main benefits: 1) Any funds transferred will count towards or cover your required minimum distribution (“RMD”) for that tax year, and 2) distributions are not added to your taxable income. (Please note that while you will not receive a charitable deduction for these gifts, excluding them from your income is more advantageous than a deduction.) To make your rollover gift, instruct your IRA administrator to send a check payable to the “University of Illinois Foundation” to 1305 West Green Street, Urbana, IL 61801, for the benefit of the College. Please also ask your broker to include your name on the check’s stub. Estate Gifts A bequest is one of the simplest ways to make a deferred gift. You can make a bequest by including the Foundation — for the benefit of the College — in a provision via your will or living trust. Your bequest can be for a specific amount, a specific asset or a percentage of your estate. Any of these options allow you to make generous gifts while maintaining control of your assets during your life. Bequests given to the Foundation are not subject to estate tax. Similar options also exist for retirement plan or whole life insurance beneficiary designations and transferable-on-death or payable-on-death accounts. Our Director of Gift Planning can work with you or your adviser to develop customized bequest language that accurately reflects your wishes to support the College and ensures your gift will be used as you intend. Charitable Gift Annuities A charitable gift annuity (CGA) is an easy, popular option that allows you to transfer cash or appreciated, marketable securities to the Foundation, and, in exchange, you — or up to two people you choose — receive a fixed annual payment for life. After the income beneficiaries pass away, the remaining funds are used to support the College. CGA donors also receive an immediate income tax deduction, subject to applicable limitations, and, in most cases, a portion of their payments tax-free. CGAs also offer capital gains tax savings should you decide to use appreciated securities to fund your annuity. The minimum amount necessary to create a CGA is $10,000, and all income beneficiaries must be at least 60 years of age when payments begin. CGAs are not available in a small number of states. Please contact our Director of Gift Planning for a free, no-obligation illustration or further information. Charitable Trusts We also have options (“remainder” trusts) that allow you to transfer assets to the Foundation to put in a trust which then makes payments to you or others for life, for a term that doesn’t exceed 20 years, or a combination of the two. When your trust terminates, its remaining assets are used to support the College. These trusts must be created with at least $50,000 in assets. The Foundation will serve as trustee where at least 50 percent of the trust’s remainder benefits the Foundation for the College and the trust’s beneficiaries are at least 55 years old. Other options (“lead” trusts) allow you to provide annual gifts to the Foundation for the benefit of the College for a set term and, at the end of that term, pass the remaining assets to individuals you designate. You decide how long payments will be made to the Foundation and when the remaining assets will be distributed to your benefitting individuals. This option may reduce gift, estate and generation-skipping transfer taxes. Our Director of Gift Planning can also provide you with a free, no-obligation illustration or further information for any charitable trust option. Retained Life Estate A retained life estate allows you to gift, at your passing, your personal residence or farm to the Foundation for the benefit of the College while allowing you and other named beneficiaries to live on the property during your life. Upon the death of all beneficiaries, the Foundation will receive your property with the right to sell it to support the College. Benefits include escaping all capital gains tax on your property’s appreciation and the property being removed from you taxable estate. A retained life estate agreement is irrevocable, and the College will not realize your gift until the passing of all the named beneficiaries. Like all gifts of real estate, the Foundation collects and reviews information about each proposed retained life estate before accepting it. For further information, please contact Director of Gift Planning Jason James Shuba, JD, at (312) 413-3394 or [email protected] ; College Director of Development Laura Knight, MBA, at (815) 395-5921 or [email protected] ; or visit the Foundation’s planned giving website at http://uic.giftplans.org. The University of Illinois Foundation does not provide tax, legal, or accounting advice. This material has been prepared for informational purposes only and is not intended to provide, and should not be relied on for, tax, legal, or accounting advice. You should consult your own tax, legal, and accounting advisors before engaging in any transaction. Giving Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact and Stewardship Give Now! Alumni and Friends Advancement Communications Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             