https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/giving/ways-to-give
Ways to Give | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Ways to Give Home / Giving / Ways to Give  Ways to Give tlowery1 2017-12-06T10:41:10-06:00 Give Online Give by Mail Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts Planned Giving Give Online When you use our online giving system , you help us save time, reduce paperwork and eliminate postage. The transaction process is encrypted, so you can safely and securely support any of our campuses, colleges, units or programs.You may either make a one-time gift or set up recurring payments online using your credit card. Mail Your Check Please make gifts by check or money order payable to the “University of Illinois Foundation” and include a short note (or memo on your check) stating the purpose or designation of your gift. Your gift to Rockford Medicine will be processed and receipted by our fundraising partner, the University of Illinois Foundation. For the security of your gift, please do not send cash. Mail to: University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford Attn: Director of Development 1601 Parkview Avenue Rockford, IL 61107 Gifts of Securities The College of Medicine welcomes gifts of stock, bonds, mutual funds and other appreciated securities. Gifts of appreciated securities may provide immediate assistance to us, as gifts of cash do, or may be made as part of our planned giving program to benefit the long-term needs of the College. Some benefits of gifts of appreciated securities: You avoid capital gains tax. Gains are taxable if you sell stock or mutual fund shares, but not if you transfer ownership to the University. Your charitable deduction for federal income tax purposes is based on the full, fair-market value of the shares on the date the gift is made. You receive credit from the University of Illinois for the full fair-market value of the shares, but the cost to you is your original purchase price. These gifts require special planning and consultation with your professional financial advisor, as well as University of Illinois Foundation staff. To make a gift of stock, please contact the Medical Advancement Office at the College of Medicine at (815) 395-5921 or the Foundation at (217) 333-0810. Matching Gifts Double or even triple your impact! Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match charitable contributions made to the University by their employees, retirees, and/or spouses. From student scholarships and technology upgrades to faculty support and innovative research, your generosity makes a powerful impact on the College — and on the world. To find out if your company has a matching gift policy, please search the University of Illinois Foundation’s database . If your company is in our database, you may be able to access the forms/process needed directly through this search as well. The University of Illinois Foundation is a 501(c)3 charitable organization with EIN 37-6006007. Planned Gifts Consider a planned gift when you think about how to support the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford currently or how to leave a lasting legacy at the College. Learn more about planned giving options available to you. Giving Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact and Stewardship Give Now! Alumni and Friends Advancement Communications Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             