https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/alumni-friends/attend-events
Attend Events | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Attend Events Home / Alumni / Attend Events  Attend Events tlowery1 2020-04-02T12:00:20-05:00 For Alumni in the Miami Area: An Evening Discovering Health Care Delivery & Education MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2020 7:30—9:30 P.M. THE BILTMORE HOTEL MIAMI 1200 ANASTASIA AVENUE CORAL GABLES, FL 33134 Simulation and Innovation: How Your Caregiver Prepares for You Consider the healthcare providers you will encounter in the months ahead. You’ll likely see a physician, nurse, pharmacist, dentist, social worker, psychiatrist or physical therapist. Experts from UI Health – UIC’s seven health science colleges and health care delivery enterprise – will lead a discussion that will show you the path your provider took that prepared him or her to care for you and your loved ones, and the innovative ways they will deliver your care in the decades ahead.  Christine Park MD Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology Professor of Clinical Medicine, Dept of Medical Education, Director, Simulation and Integrative Learning Institute  Robert Kiser Associate Director Simulation and Integrative Learning Institute Register at: Go.UIF.UILLINOIS.EDU/CORALGABLES For Alumni in the Chicago Area: UIC’s Response to the Opioid Epidemic We are in the midst of an opioid epidemic that impacts our families and communities across the state and the nation. As an academic and research powerhouse with resources across Illinois, UI Health is uniquely positioned to offer solutions from a variety of perspectives. Join us for an alumni networking reception with UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and hear from a panel of experts on how UIC is developing innovative solutions to address the opioid epidemic. Panelists Wayne H. Giles, MD, MS, Dean, School of Public Health Todd A. Lee, PharmD, PhD, Professor, College of Pharmacy James A. Swartz, PhD, Professor, Jane Addams College of Social Work Moderator Susan Rowan, DDS, MS, Executive Associate Dean, College of Dentistry Wednesday, March 4, 2020  6:00 p.m. Registration and networking 6:30 p.m. Presentation and discussion 7:15 p.m. Reception and networking The Hyatt Lodge  2815 Jorie Blvd.  Oak Brook, IL 60523 Reserve your spot now. Tickets are $20 per person. Please note: we will not offer CEUs for this event.  If you have additional questions, please contact the UIC Alumni Association at [email protected] or 312-413-8272. We look forward to seeing you in Oak Brook! Get ready for Rockford Alumni Reunion 2020! All alumni are invited to attend and we’ll be highlighting the classes celebrating milestone anniversaries: 1975 – 45th Anniversary 1980 – 40th Anniversary 1985 – 35th Anniversary 1990 – 30th Anniversary 1995 – 25th Anniversary 2000 – 20th Anniversary 2005 – 15th Anniversary 2010 – 10th Anniversary 2015 – 5th Anniversary Family Medicine Residency Alumni are also welcome to attend. Alumni at the 2017 Alumni Reunion enjoy a walk down Memory Lane as they check out all the class photos.  Become a Reunion Class Volunteer! As we prepare for reunion, we would like your involvement to help us make this celebration meaningful for you and your classmates. By becoming a Reunion Class Volunteer, you may assist by doing any of the following: Make personal phone calls, Send individual or mass e-mails, Connect with classmates through social media, Share contact information of classmates with whom the College has lost touch, or Contact Carrie Hermanson with your ideas for making the reunion a memorable event. Historically, classes with volunteers have seen greater participation at reunion and more success in connecting with classmates than those without. This role truly helps build excitement around reunion with your classmates. Is Your Info Updated?  Update your contact information to ensure you receive invitations to reunions and other events! Questions? For more information, contact Carrie Hermanson, director of communications and engagement, at (815) 395-5601 or [email protected] . Alumni Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Update Your Records Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             