https://rockford.medicine.uic.edu/home
Home | Rockford Medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UIC Directory     About  Welcome From Regional Dean Dean’s Action Council Fast Facts Strategic Planning Overview UIC Health Sciences Campus Glenn Netto Health & Wellness Center Visiting the Campus Employment Apply for a Job at the College Civil Service Practice Test Benefits Discover Rockford Contact Us Education  MD Admissions Rockford Interviews MD Curriculum Campus Specific Programs Curriculum by Year Course Management/Blackboard Exams/Benware/Course Evaluations Visiting Students Medical Education and Evaluation MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Office Academic Skills Step 1 Resources Career Services Computing Housing Library MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Scholarship Opportunities Student Health and Wellness MD Student Life Discover Rockford Student Organizations Parking & Transportation Diversity Educational Policies Master of Science in Medical Biotechnology Program Graduate Medical Education (GME) Family Medicine Residency Welcome Career and Life Planning for Residents Policies Manual Rockford Family Medicine Residency Program Dixon Rural Training Track Monroe Clinic Rural Family Medicine Residency Program Hospice and Palliative Medicine Fellowship Program Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programs for High School and College Students Biomedical Sciences HS Programs Rural Health Careers Camp Rural Health Programs for College Student SMART Program for College Students Research  Research in Rockford National Center for Rural Health Professionals Biomedical Research Health Policy and Social Science Research Library of the Health Sciences Office of Research Research Opportunities for Medical Students Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Human Subjects Research (IRB) Biologic Resource Committee (BRC) Faculty Research Resources IRB Policy and Procedure Manual Center for Clinical and Translational Science Annual Research Day Patient Care  UI Health L.P. Johnson Family Health Center Insurance and Payment Policies Your Health Care Team UI Health Patient Portal Insurance Coverage Patient Privacy: HIPAA UI Health Thyroid Disease in Pregnancy Clinic Local Affiliations Departments  Academic Departments Biomedical Sciences Family and Community Medicine Medicine and Medical Specialties Obstetrics and Gynecology Pathology Pediatrics MERIT Ways to Help MERIT Psychiatry Surgery and Surgical Specialties Centers National Center for Rural Health Professions News  Upcoming Events Giving  Areas of Impact Ways to Give Planned Giving Giving Impact & Stewardship Give Now! Advancement Communications Contact Us Alumni  Get Involved Attend Events Stay Connected Keep Informed Share Your Story Request Official Documents Make a Gift Contact Us  Search for:    Home Home  Home tlowery1 2020-02-07T13:11:03-06:00 Virtually Explore 90+ Research Projects Research Day 2020 » Discover the Matches of our M4 Students Match Day 2020 » Community-based Medical Education Read More » Innovative Research Read More » Serving the Community Read More » Educate. Innovate. Serve. Read More » Information For Prospective and Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Patients Businesses & Community Programs for High School and College Students Building a Pipeline of Tomorrow's Health and Research Professionals The University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford offers programs for high school and undergraduate college students interested in learning more about career opportunities in health professions and research. Learn more Clinical Services at Rockford Clinical Services The College of Medicine Rockford operates the L.P. Johnson Family Health Center and the University Thyroid in Pregnancy Clinic in Rockford. Find a provider Colleges on Campus Colleges on Campus The UIC Health Sciences Campus is home to the College of Medicine Rockford, the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Nursing – Rockford Regional Campus, and the University of Illinois College of Pharmacy at Rockford and their respective programs, centers and research. Innovative Research Created in 2015 as a result of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford’s strategic planning process, the Office of Research’s mission is to increase student and faculty research productivity through the development of infrastructure and the provision of research opportunities needed for students and faculty. Learn more Ignite the Future of Medicine During the IGNITE campaign, you can change lives by providing more students support through scholarships, improving the student experience through new facilities or building endowments to attract the highest-caliber faculty. Your gift, no matter what size, can make a profound impact on the College of Medicine Rockford. Give now Improving Health and Wellness Student Health and Wellness is dedicated to assisting all students in achieving and maintaining optimum physical, mental and emotional health. Healthy patients become healthy providers. Learn more COVID-19 Testing Center Update The University of Illinois College of Medicine Rockford is not involved in any aspect of the daily operation of the COVID-19 testing center nor is it involved in the lab work. However, as a public [...] Convocation Ceremony 2020 Congratulations to the Class of 2020! Watch our virtual Convocation Ceremony for the University of Illinois College of Medicine-Rockford Class of 2020 on YouTube. It will be live streamed on Saturday, May 2, 2020, and [...] Award Winners for Research Day 2020 Below are the list of award winners for the 25th Annual Research Day. View the whole list of all of the research projects here. Best Basic Science Research Poster Award Sponsored by [...] 1 2 Next About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients  Businesses and Community RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2019 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                             