https://dscc.uic.edu/dscc-family-spreads-easter-joy-to-hospitalized-children
DSCC Family Spreads Easter Joy to Hospitalized Children - UIC Specialized Care for Children              Contact Us             Menu      We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources.   Skip to content  Home  Who We Are   Executive Director’s Greeting  About Us  History  Annual Report  News  Events  Family Stories  Family Advisory Council  Medical Advisory Board  Employment Opportunities   Career Search  Apply for a Career      How We Help   How We Help   Accessing diagnostic tests  Finding specialized medical care  Using insurance & All Kids / Medicaid  Finding resources & information  Developing a care coordination plan  Communicating with doctors, specialists & schools  Preparing for transition  Paying for certain medical expenses    Does It Cost Money?  Is My Child Eligible?  Programs   Core Program  Home Care Program    How To Apply  Refer A Family    Find An Office   Find An Office   Champaign  Chicago Administrative Office  Chicago  Chicago Home Care  Lombard  Marion  Mokena  Olney  Peoria  Rockford  Springfield Administrative Office  Springfield  St. Clair    Contact Us  Request a Callback    Browse Resources   Resource Directory   COVID-19 Resources and Supports for Families  Transition Tools    Parent to Parent Support  Brochures and Pamphlets   Request Brochures and Pamphlets    Forms  Glossary    For Providers   How We Help Providers  Provider Application  Reimbursement Information  Explanation of Provider Payments  Provider Forms  Home Care Information and Resources  Tools and Resources  Provider Portal  Refer A Family       Contact Us             In this section   News /  DSCC Family Spreads Easter Joy to Hospitalized Children  April 10th, 2020     The Johnson family donated 160 Easter baskets for children at Central DuPage Hospital, surpassing their goal despite the coronavirus outbreak  Andrea Stambaugh vividly recalls the disappointment she felt
when her son, Axel Johnson, was in the pediatric intensive care unit on Easter
weekend 2018.  There would be no coloring eggs, Easter egg hunts, or other
favorite family celebrations.  “I was feeling like a failure because I didn’t have an Easter basket beautifully wrapped and thoughtfully hidden here for Axel to see on Easter morning,” Andrea wrote on her Facebook page, “ Axel’s Journey with CMV .” “Then, as the lights turned down in the hallway and it grew quiet, I heard a family in the hallway praying. Praying not for Easter baskets and a chance to color eggs, but for life.”  The moment immediately changed her perspective. Andrea vowed to offer love and support to such families who can’t be home making memories with their children.  Each of the donated Easter baskets from the Johnson family includes an uplifting card.  For the last two years, the Johnsons have collected donations to fill Easter baskets for hospitalized children. Despite unexpected challenges from the coronavirus outbreak, the family surpassed this year’s goal and delivered 160 Easter baskets to Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield.  “We know the burden and the mom guilt that people feel when they can’t provide their kid a proper holiday. We know that that’s a lot of stress and a lot of burden and frankly, the families are dealing with a lot of other things if they’re in the hospital,” Andrea said. “They shouldn’t have to feel that pressure, so we’re here to make sure that’s relieved from them and that they can focus on healing for their child.”  Axel is 3 years old and a participant in the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Division of Specialized Care for Children program.  After his Easter hospitalization, Andrea researched information
from other organizations who coordinate Easter basket donations. She put
together a list of suggested items, including coloring books, puzzles, dolls
and action figures. She then asked her page followers for donations.  The Johnsons hoped to collect enough items for 25 baskets for Easter 2019. Donations far exceeded this goal. A team of volunteers helped them put together a total of 125 baskets for children at multiple Chicago-area hospitals.  This year, the Johnsons aimed to donate 150 baskets. They
set up an Amazon wish list for Easter basket items, and donations started to
pour in. But challenges soon arose as the coronavirus outbreak escalated. For
safety reasons, two hospitals could no longer accept donations for patients.  Central DuPage Hospital could accept the baskets if the
Johnsons followed strict safety precautions.  “We have an immunocompromised child, so we know about the
importance of keeping the children and the families safe during this time,”
Andrea said.  Axel poses with the 160 Easter baskets his family donated for pediatric patients at Central DuPage Hospital.  Every Easter basket item was purchased new and cleaned with bleach spray or a sanitizing wipe. Andrea and her partner, Adam Johnson, wore gloves and masks while sorting the items and wrapping the baskets with cellophane and personalized notes.  Due to the pandemic’s social distancing requirements, Andrea
and Adam spent 16 hours packaging 160 baskets without their usual team of
volunteers.  Last weekend, they delivered the baskets to Central DuPage
Hospital in Winfield to be ready for patients on Easter Sunday.  “It makes our hearts really happy every year when we get to
see the finished product and all of the kids that will be blessed this Easter,”
Andrea said.  The family is also already planning to provide baskets to
more hospitals next Easter.  For more information about their project and Axel’s condition, visit “ Axel’s Journey with CMV” on Facebook.     Share this page         Request a Callback » Leave us your contact info and we will call you back at the desired time.       Jump to content  Executive Director's Greeting About Us History Annual Report News Events Family Stories Family Advisory Council Medical Advisory Board Employment Opportunities   Back to top         Call us  (800) 322-3722  or  Send us an email ›       We’re here to help.  University of Illinois at Chicago's Division of Specialized Care for Children provides FREE care coordination for families of children with special health care needs.    Visit Us on Facebook        Contact Us. P: (800) 322-3722 TTY: (217) 785-4728 F: (217) 558-0773 Hours: M-F, 8:00am-4:30pm Request a Callback  Send us an email    Get our newsletter.         First Name Last Name Email *   Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.                This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.       USE OF THIS SITE SIGNIFIES YOUR AGREEMENT TO THE TERMS OF USE .  © Copyright 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois           