https://dscc.uic.edu/home-medical-supply-guidance-for-families-during-covid-19-outbreak
Home Medical Supply Guidance for Families During COVID-19 Outbreak - UIC Specialized Care for Children              Contact Us             Menu      We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources.   Skip to content  Home  Who We Are   Executive Director’s Greeting  About Us  History  Annual Report  News  Events  Family Stories  Family Advisory Council  Medical Advisory Board  Employment Opportunities   Career Search  Apply for a Career      How We Help   How We Help   Accessing diagnostic tests  Finding specialized medical care  Using insurance & All Kids / Medicaid  Finding resources & information  Developing a care coordination plan  Communicating with doctors, specialists & schools  Preparing for transition  Paying for certain medical expenses    Does It Cost Money?  Is My Child Eligible?  Programs   Core Program  Home Care Program    How To Apply  Refer A Family    Find An Office   Find An Office   Champaign  Chicago Administrative Office  Chicago  Chicago Home Care  Lombard  Marion  Mokena  Olney  Peoria  Rockford  Springfield Administrative Office  Springfield  St. Clair    Contact Us  Request a Callback    Browse Resources   Resource Directory   COVID-19 Resources and Supports for Families  Transition Tools    Parent to Parent Support  Brochures and Pamphlets   Request Brochures and Pamphlets    Forms  Glossary    For Providers   How We Help Providers  Provider Application  Reimbursement Information  Explanation of Provider Payments  Provider Forms  Home Care Information and Resources  Tools and Resources  Provider Portal  Refer A Family       Contact Us             In this section   News /  Home Medical Supply Guidance for Families During COVID-19 Outbreak  April 2nd, 2020     Instructions for safely cleaning and re-using supplies for technology-dependent children.  Adequate
medical supplies are essential for families caring for children who are
medically fragile and technology-dependent at home.  The
University of Illinois at Chicago’s Division of Specialized Care for Children
(DSCC) wants to make sure our participant families can keep their supplies
properly stocked through the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak.  We’ve compiled guidance and instructions to help families safely clean and re-use supplies in case there’s a future shortage. *Please note you should check with your child’s care team to make sure these guidelines are appropriate for your child.   The DSCC Guidance on Home Medical Supplies includes instructions for cleaning and re-using:  Feeding supplies Suction supplies Tracheostomy supplies Ventilator equipment Nebulizer equipment  *Again, please check with your child’s care team to make sure these guidelines are appropriate for your child.  The guidance is available on our Home Care Information and Resources page as well as in our list of COVID-19 resources and supports for families .  Our
Care Coordinators are also available to discuss strategies and help you become prepared
and well-equipped for your child’s care in the weeks and months ahead.  Please
reach out to your local regional office or call us at (800)
322-3722.     Share this page         Request a Callback » Leave us your contact info and we will call you back at the desired time.       Jump to content  Executive Director's Greeting About Us History Annual Report News Events Family Stories Family Advisory Council Medical Advisory Board Employment Opportunities   Back to top         Call us  (800) 322-3722  or  Send us an email ›       We’re here to help.  University of Illinois at Chicago's Division of Specialized Care for Children provides FREE care coordination for families of children with special health care needs.    Visit Us on Facebook        Contact Us. P: (800) 322-3722 TTY: (217) 785-4728 F: (217) 558-0773 Hours: M-F, 8:00am-4:30pm Request a Callback  Send us an email    Get our newsletter.         First Name Last Name Email *   Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.                This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.       USE OF THIS SITE SIGNIFIES YOUR AGREEMENT TO THE TERMS OF USE .  © Copyright 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois           