https://uofi.uic.edu/fb/sec/7074059
Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues University of Illinois at Chicago Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues The University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) is committed to maintaining a barrier-free environment so that individuals with disabilities can fully access programs, services, and all activities at UIC. The information submitted on this form will be collected by the Disability Resource Center (DRC) and shared with the Chancellor's Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities (CCSPD) unless a specific request for confidentiality is indicated in the comment section below. All matters will be reviewed by DRC and appropriate campus officials. For response and/or action please complete the follow-up section found at the bottom of the form. Please express your concerns in the form below. 1. I am currently a UIC 1. I am currently a UIC Faculty Academic Support Support Staff Student Visitor Patient Nature of Concern   (Please indicate all that apply) 2. Building and Classroom Accessibility (Check all that apply) 2. Building and Classroom Accessibility (Check all that apply) Acoustics Doors Elevator Flooring Lights Ramp or Stairs Restrooms Seating and Furniture Signage Telephone Water Fountain Comment, Explain the problem in detail and enter building or room location Enter text 3. Assistive Technology 3. Assistive Technology Assistive Listening Device Computer Access Workstation Other Comment, Explain the problem in detail Enter text 4. Services 4. Services Food Services Parking Snow Removal Transportation Other Comment, Explain the problem in detail Enter text 5. Communication and Information 5. Communication and Information Alternative Format Disability Awareness Email Interpreter TTY Web Accessibility Other Comment, Explain the problem in detail Enter text 6. Construction and Renovation 6. Construction and Renovation Path of Travel Signage Other Location and Comment, Explain problem in detail Enter text 7. Does the nature of concern pertain to a Program or Event at UIC? 7. Does the nature of concern pertain to a Program or Event at UIC? Yes No 8. If you answered YES to the previous question and the concern pertained to a Program or Event at UIC, please enter the name of the Program or Event and include the Date of the Event Follow-up Once you submit the form your identity will be protected and only known as the "webmailer@uic.edu." If you would like us to follow-up, please provide your contact information: 9. First Name (optional)  10. Last Name (optional)  11. Telephone (optional) answer must be phone number with area code like 217-333-1000  12. E-mail (optional) answer must be an email address  The following questions are optional and not required. 13. Disability 13. Disability I do not consider myself to have a disability I consider myself to have a disability or disabilities. 14. Type of Disability (check as many as apply) 14. Type of Disability (check as many as apply) ADD or ADHD Blindness or Vision Impairment Deafness or Hard of Hearing Head Injury Learning Disability Mobility or Physical Psychiatric or Emotional Systemic or Chronic Illness Other Disability Enter text Thank you! For questions or to follow-up, contact the Disability Resource Center by e-mail at drc@uic.edu . Powered by Webtools | Privacy  The University of Illinois at Chicago  1200 West Harrison St.  Chicago, Illinois 60607  312-996-7000