https://today.uic.edu/uic-senior-awarded-a-gates-cambridge-scholarship
UIC senior awarded a Gates Cambridge Scholarship | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC senior awarded a Gates Cambridge Scholarship  April 15, 2020   UIC student and Gates Cambridge scholar Anis Barmada. Photo: Joshua Clark.  University of Illinois at Chicago senior Anis Barmada is one of 49 international students to win the prestigious Gates Cambridge Scholarship for graduate studies at the University of Cambridge.  Barmada, a UIC Honors College member majoring in biological sciences and chemistry in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, was selected in the highly competitive selection process, which emphasizes outstanding academic achievement and social leadership. The newly elected international cohort joins more than two dozen scholars from the U.S., who were announced in February, to complete the Gates Cambridge class of 2020.  The
prestigious scholarship, which aims to build a global network of future leaders
committed to improving the lives of others, is funded by the Gates Cambridge
Trust established by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.  Barmada, who grew up in Damascus,
Syria, and immigrated to the U.S. in 2015, will
pursue a master’s degree in genomic medicine in the department of
medical genetics in the School of Clinical Medicine at Cambridge.  “I hope to visualize the molecular, analytical, statistical, social and clinical challenges facing the use of omics-based personalized medicine across everyday clinics,” he said. “Professionally, I intend to pursue an MD/Ph.D. advancing biochemical and computational technologies to address currently incurable diseases and contributing to the crafting of a new era of health care without disparities.”  Barmada, who
is minoring in mathematics, is part of the President’s Award Program STEM
Initiative at UIC, which is a selective peer and faculty network for students
in STEM disciplines to do research, develop professional connections and
prepare for graduate education.  Since his first year at UIC, he
has conducted research on diabetic eye disease in the laboratory of Scott
Shippy, UIC associate professor of chemistry and bioengineering, while also
volunteering at an ophthalmology clinic that serves patients of the same
life-changing, blindness-causing disease conditions.  “Through
these experiences, I found an articulation of my interests in patient-driven
research that considers both the biochemical and socioeconomic lenses,” he
said.  Shippy considers Barmada “nothing short of remarkable” and, as an example, noted his key role in the lab’s project to collect tears from mice to look for markers of disease that resulted in two first-author publications from the young researcher.  “He has grown tremendously from those first days learning the basic lab techniques to the present day with a research-oriented opinion article under review in an ophthalmology journal,” Shippy said. “With his intellect and astounding work ethic, I predict he will have a large impact on the future of health care as a scientist-physician.”  The Gates Cambridge Scholarship is the latest honor for Barmada, who earned a prestigious Goldwater scholarship in 2019 and was among the U.S. finalists for a 2020 Rhodes Scholarship.  He is the recipient of several scholarships and awards, in addition to research support via Honors College research grants, the Liberal Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Research Initiative and the chemistry department’s Herbert E. Paaren Summer Research Stipend.  Barmada, a resident of Mount Prospect and 2016 graduate of Wheeling High School, is the fifth UIC student to win a Gates Cambridge Scholarship since the program was established through a $210 million donation from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000.  UIC’s Office of External Fellowships provides advising and assistance
to current undergraduate and professional school students in finding and
applying for a range of nationally and internationally competitive fellowships,
scholarships and grants.     Contact   Brian Flood 312-996-7681  bflood@uic.edu  twitter.com/bflooduic       Categories   Students , Top Faculty Staff News , Top Student News   Topics biological sciences , chemistry , College of Liberal Arts and Sciences , Gates Cambridge , Honors College , Office of External Fellowships , scholarships          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     