https://today.uic.edu/uic-physics-and-mathematics-student-named-goldwater-scholar
UIC physics and mathematics student named Goldwater Scholar | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC physics and mathematics student named Goldwater Scholar  April 8, 2020   Lopa Bhatt, a UIC Honors College member who is majoring in physics and mathematics in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.  A University of Illinois at Chicago undergraduate student
studying electron microscopy has been recognized for her academic achievement
by the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence Foundation.  Lopa Bhatt, a junior majoring in physics and mathematics in
the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, is the latest UIC student to receive
the prominent $7,500 scholarship that will cover tuition, books and related
fees during the 2020-21 academic year.  Almost 400 recipients in mathematics, science and engineering were selected from an estimated applicant pool of over 5,000 college sophomores and juniors for the Goldwater Scholarship, named for the late Republican senator from Arizona.  Bhatt, a UIC Honors College member from Naperville, has
studied in the lab of Robert Klie, UIC professor of physics, where her work has been focused on
improving techniques related to the fabrication of graphene-based liquid cells,
or GLCs.  “Lopa has learned not only how to operate a state-of-the-art
electron microscope, she is also able to perform atomic-resolution imaging
and spectroscopy using electron probes that do not damage the delicate graphene
liquid cells. This is an extraordinary achievement,” Klie said.  Bhatt is involved in several cutting-edge research projects and will be a co-author on at least three papers, covering a wide range of materials and biomaterials science.  “Previous
studies have demonstrated that charged nanoparticles have a wide range of
applications, from the treatment of diseases, such as cancer and bacterial
infections, to the removal of pollutants from water,” she said. “Nevertheless,
much remains unknown about the behavior of charged nanoparticles in aqueous
solution, primarily due to the small scale of nanoparticles and the limitations
of optical microscopes.”  This
inability to quantify the interactions between the liquid and the charged
nanoparticles has been a significant barrier to their development and
implementation in medical and environmental applications.  “These GLCs can be used to examine solutions through the scanning transmission electron microscope — an instrument that is able to even see the arrangement of atoms in a material,” Bhatt said. “I have been able to improve the GLCs in order to encapsulate the nanoparticles solution and make progress in understanding how the nanoparticles behave in nanoconfined spaces in solutions.”  Last year, she presented research at conferences held by the American Physical Society, Microscopy Society of America and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.  “Such
exposure to the research community is unique for an undergraduate student, and
is the result of Lopa’s outstanding research and presentation skills,” Klie
said.  Her
future academic and professional objectives are to earn a Ph.D. from a top-tier
materials science/condensed matter physics program and become a successful
researcher or professor focused on electron microscopy.  Bhatt, who was born in India, moved to the U.S. in 2015. She graduated from Metea Valley High School in 2017 and received the President’s Award Program-Honors Scholarship, which is the Honors College’s most prestigious award and covers four-year tuition and housing for exemplary incoming first-year students.  While at UIC, she has received multiple university honors, including the Chancellor’s Undergraduate Research Award, the UIContest Award for Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher and the College of Liberal Arts and Science Undergraduate Research Initiative Award. The Honors College has also awarded her undergraduate conference travel grants and an undergraduate research grant.  In addition to family and friends, Bhatt credits her achievements in part to the support she’s received at UIC from people such as Klie; Andrew Shulman, senior lecturer in mathematics, statistics and computer science, and Mark Schlossman, professor of physics.  “Some of the
professors at UIC have had a really big impact on my educational career, and it
is because of them that I have gotten this far,” she said.  UIC’s Office of External Fellowships provides
advising and assistance to current undergraduate and professional school
students in finding and applying for a range of nationally and internationally
competitive fellowships, scholarships and grants.  “Lopa’s success in the Goldwater competition — the most prestigious STEM award nationwide for sophomores and juniors involved in research — is a testament to her intellect, dedication and research skills, and it is also evidence of UIC’s strength in providing opportunities and mentoring in and through undergraduate research,” said Kim Germain, director of UIC’s Office of External Fellowships.     Contact   Brian Flood 312-996-7681  bflood@uic.edu  twitter.com/bflooduic       Categories   Students , Top Faculty Staff News , Top Student News   Topics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences , Goldwater , Honors College , mathematics , Office of External Fellowships , physics          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     