https://emergency.uic.edu/public-safety-advisory
Public Safety Advisory | Emergency Information     Skip to Content   Eyebrow Navigation  UIC  Find People  Departments A-Z  Library  Athletics   Common U I C menu UIC Find People Departments A-Z Library Athletics                Search for:            Skip to Content   Main Navigation  Home  UIC Alerts  Public Safety Advisories  Campus General  Monthly Test Alerts  Get alerts for websites   Main Menu Home UIC Alerts Public Safety Advisories Campus General Monthly Test Alerts Get alerts for websites         Related Links UIC Police  UIC Safe (Mobile Appl)  Annual Safety and Security Report  Extreme Weather Policies  Night Ride  Ready UIC        Public Safety Advisory  ****Public Safety Advisory, [v2 INSERT DATE Robbery] Posted on April 8th, 2020 On Tuesday, April 7, at approximately 4:15 p.m., UIC Police responded to a report of an armed robbery that occurred at 1234 S. Union St. The victim, who is not affiliated with UIC, reported that she was walking southbound when she was approached by an unknown offender. The offender, who is described as a black female in her late 20's, approximately 5'10" tall, wearing a black tank top, skinny jeans, and braided hair, grabbed the victim's purse causing the victim to be slammed to the ground. The victim received minor injuries during the altercation and refused medical attention. The offender entered a gray sedan as a passenger and the car fled southbound on Union St.

Approximate crime location mapped:
https://goo.gl/maps/haEW7iqnNbbrZcku9

The Chicago Police Department will lead the investigation. Anyone with information should call 311.

UIC Police offer the following security tips:

Be aware of your surroundings. Use all your senses to be alert for danger, and when walking alone, don't wear headphones or earbuds.
Don't display valuables in public.
On campus, look for the location of the nearest emergency call box (there are more than 1,500 across campus.)
To contact the UIC Police, call 312-355-5555 for emergencies or 312-996-2830 for non-emergencies.
Report crime promptly to police.
Public safety advisories are distributed to the university community in compliance with the federal Clery Act. UIC Police may also issue notifications for off-campus crimes in the interest of public-safety awareness. Security tips are standard precautions, not special or incident-specific measures. Offender descriptions and precise locations are provided only to aid in the identification of possible suspects. Updates to investigations are not sent by email but will be posted online at: http://emergency.uic.edu/public-safety-advisory/

UIC Annual Security Report
http://www.clery.uic.edu

Chicago Police Department Crime Incidents
http://gis.chicagopolice.org/clearmap/startpage.htm

Urgent notifications may be sent via both INSTANT TEXT MESSAGE (SMS) and URGENT mass e-mails. SMS messages -- issued only in cases of immediate threat to health and safety, such as a tornado alert, or a major disruption to travel -- are faster and more reliable than e-mail. The campus strongly recommends that you register your cell phone for SMS messages at http://sms.uic.edu        Crime Solvers Public Safety Update  April 20, 2018 Suspect arrested in armed robbery  May 25, 2017 Suspect arrested in armed robbery  February 2, 2016 Safety Tips  UIC Police offer the following security tips:  Be aware of your surroundings  Try to travel in groups when possible, particularly after dark  Use well-lit walkways  On campus, look for the location of the nearest emergency call box (there are more than 1,500 across campus)  The emergency number for UIC Police is 5-5555 or 312-355-5555, which should be set on speed-dial on your cell phone  Report crime promptly to police             © Copyright 2015-2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois      Footer Navigation   Follow Us     Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Privacy Policy  Contact Us           