https://today.uic.edu/resources/social-media-inquiry-form
Social Media Account Request Form | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory          Social Media Account Request Form   All official
UIC social media accounts must be reviewed and approved by the Office of Public
and Government Affairs.  PGA’s goal is
to provide counsel and support campus social media managers and page
administrators to use social media channels as effectively as possible to reach
audiences and uphold the reputation of UIC. PGA will routinely review all
UIC-affiliated social media pages to ensure they adhere to PGA’s social media
policies and guidelines and will reach out to social media managers as needed
to discuss solutions for pages that need support.  Each new page will be under review for the first six months of its existence to ensure that it conforms to our policies and guidelines.  Please fill out
the questionnaire below to being the review process for your social media page:   Name *   First    Last   Unit * Email *    Enter Email     Confirm Email    Phone * Why do you want to create a social media account? * What are your goals for your account? * Who is your audience? * What content will you use? * Are there already official social media channels that could share your content and help you achieve your goals? * Do you have resources available to create content on a daily basis? * How will you measure your success? * Who will be page administrators? *                           UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     