https://today.uic.edu/uic-social-media-guidelines-and-best-practices
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices  September 6, 2019   Social media policies  Role of primary UIC social media accounts  The primary University social media accounts are managed by the Office of Public and Government Affairs (PGA). These include Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , YouTube and LinkedIn . These primary channels focus on University-wide information, and an editorial process is used to determine what is posted. Content from other areas of the University is welcome and encouraged but posted at the discretion of PGA staff. The primary University accounts also are used in times of crisis to support how we reach the general community and public.  Other schools, divisions, departments, etc., also have official UIC-affiliated social media channels to reach diverse and niche UIC audiences, as well as foster a sense of community among prospective students, current students, alumni, faculty, staff and Chicagoans.  For a list of UIC accounts, visit the UIC Social Media Directory .  Social media review  PGA will routinely review all UIC-affiliated social media pages to ensure they adhere to PGA’s social media guidelines and best practices and uphold the UIC brand. New and existing accounts should share username(s) and password(s) with their unit’s dean or vice chancellor and chief college communicator to ensure that accounts are accessible to the University and are not abandoned. If social media guidelines are not followed, PGA may make recommendations to modify or shut down accounts.  We will reach out to social media managers as needed to discuss
solutions for pages that need support. PGA is happy to provide counsel to help
optimize the effectiveness of social media content.  As new channels become available, PGA will evaluate the outlet and usage
flow to determine whether to launch new accounts.  The University can remove or change any content or accounts at the
discretion of the Interim Vice Chancellor/Vice Chancellor for Public and
Government Relations.  All official University social media
accounts must also adhere to state and federal laws and regulations and
University policies.  Starting a social media channel  All official UIC social media accounts must be reviewed and approved by the Office of Public and Government Affairs. UIC employees who want to start a social media channel must first have approval from their college or unit’s chief communicator and then their dean and or unit head. Employees should then fill out the social media account request form online . Each new page will be under review for the first six months of its existence to ensure that it conforms to UIC’s social media policies and guidelines. To be added as an official channel, accounts must follow the guidelines listed below.  Social media guidelines  Page administrators for UIC-affiliated social media
accounts  UIC social media accounts and page administrators must follow these policies:  Have approval of the dean or vice chancellor Have at least two account administrators with uic.edu email addresses in addition to providing PGA and their chief college communicator access to accounts Include a comments policy/disclaimer re: opinions and links posted on the site Adhere to the terms of use by the social media outlet Adhere to state and federal laws and regulations on security and privacy, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act ( FERPA ), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA ) and NCAA guidelines Comply with all applicable University policies, including human resources and technology policies Be familiar with applicable terms of service and community guidelines, and respect general copyright and fair use policies Use official UIC logos approved by Public and Government Affairs Relinquish access to the page after leaving the University and change the password when other page administrators leave the University Review and use the University Style Guide related to UIC identity messaging Officially represent UIC units, departments, programs, groups and entities (not personal viewpoints or opinions) Update and monitor regularly, have feedback opportunities Follow accessibility guidelines outlined in the Federal Social Media Accessibility Toolkit  Content around selling third-party products or services, advertising, promotion of commercial venture, or advocating for political candidates or issues is NOT permitted.  Social media best practices  The most successful social media channels have clear message strategies, update content frequently and know target audiences. Tips include:  A well-defined target audience(s) plan Know which social media channels are best – right messages, right audiences Consider content in context with the channel (typically brief, visual, call to action) Ensure posts are accurate, grammatically correct Have a dedicated, full-time staff member to manage and monitor social media accounts Consider multimedia (photos, video clips, images) – images get the most traffic Create measurement goals and targeted outcomes Update content frequently and devise an editorial calendar/publishing schedule Be open to the spontaneity of news, current affairs and be creative, fast in posting fresh content (in addition to the regular content calendar) Incorporate monitoring tools/analytics study performance results Share content from and link to other UIC official social media accounts Consider tone — be approachable as social media tends to be more informal and colloquial Bring personality to posts while keeping in mind that the account represents the University Be conversational, yet professional Be authentic Listen to, engage with and respond to followers Ensure that content is accessible to all users (see the Federal Social Media Accessibility Toolkit for more information)  Goals  All UIC social media accounts should aim to:  Promote UIC’s reputation, increase awareness, and
support the University’s mission, goals, programs and initiatives Support institutional and departmental objectives Build community among UIC students, employees,
alumni and stakeholders Support enrollment, retention, recruitment and/or
alumni relations Drive action (awareness, attendance, web visits,
etc.)  Comments Policy  Comments should be monitored regularly to ensure that they adhere to the comments policy, and account managers should be prepared to monitor and manage conversations and posts, as appropriate. UIC social media outlets are places where the UIC community and friends can learn about research, academics, people, issues and activities related to the University of Illinois at Chicago. People are encouraged to post comments in this spirit, with respect for other users. Account and page managers reserve the right to delete profanity, off-topic or abusive comments. If counsel is needed on deleting content or a user, contact PGA for assistance. Posted comments from viewers/users do not necessarily reflect the opinions or policies of the University.  Visual Elements  All logos used on social media must be approved by the Office of
Marketing and Brand Management within PGA. Logos can be downloaded from the Office of Marketing and Brand
Management’s website.  UIC Marketing and Brand Management also provides a gallery of campus images and videos that can be used on social media. Contact PGA for additional questions or needs. Ensure that all photos have alt-text and videos are captioned to meet accessibility requirements.  UI Health  To learn more about social media and patient health information, please
view the UI Health social media guidelines .  University policies  UIC has policies related to the use of technology, codes of conduct and confidentiality that must be adhered to when posting on social media. For more information, please review these policies:  IT
Security Program  HR
Policies and Procedures  Nondiscrimination  Student
Handbook  University Code of Conduct  Web privacy  Endorsement of Commercial Services or Products by
UIC Employees  University of Illinois Policy for Publishing on the
Internet  If you have any specific questions about these social media guidelines, please contact Public and Government Affairs at uictoday@uic.edu   Suggested reading on social media best practices :  5 Best Social Media Practices for Higher Education  20 Social Media Practices for Businesses  3 Emerging Trends in Higher Education Social Media Marketing Smart Marketer’s Guide to Social Media Management  6 Best Practices for Influencer Marketing  10 Textbook Strategies for Social Media in Higher Education  10 Successful Higher Education Social Media Marketing Strategies  Media Use – Statistics & Facts  Tips for faculty who want to start personal social media channels:  99 Serious Twitter Tips for Academics  Why should teachers join Twitter?  A Defense of Academic Twitter  10 ways that professors can use social media      Contact   Christy Levy 312-996-0662  christyb@uic.edu     Categories               UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     