https://today.uic.edu/frequently-asked-questions
Frequently Asked Questions | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory          Frequently Asked Questions   Health, wellness and prevention  What can I do to protect myself?  There are measures that you can take to protect yourself from any virus even though there is currently no vaccine to prevent COVID-19.  Get a flu shot if you have not gotten it yet. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water for at least 20 seconds whenever you are touching things that other people have touched. If soap and water are not available, the CDC recommends using a hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol content. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth when you have been around other people or touching things that other people have touched. Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze—remember to wash your hands afterward. Avoid close contact with other sick people. Follow all stay at home orders that are in effect. (If you are sick, stay home from school or work for at least 24 hours after your fever is gone except to get medical care or for other necessities.) Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects. Wear a mask when out in public within 6 feet of others.  Learn
more about preventing COVID-19 .   Should I wear a mask?  Individuals should follow the CDC’s recommendations for using a facemask. Cover your mouth and nose with a cloth face cover when around others. Only use a facemask intended for a health care worker if you have no other options.  Learn more about prevention and face mask recommendations .   How does COVID-19 spread?  Current evidence suggests that the virus is spread through person-to-person contact. It may be spread:  between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).  through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. These droplets may contaminate surfaces like door handles or shopping carts.  Risk of infection with COVID-19 is higher for people who are close contacts of someone known to have COVID-19, for example, health care workers, or household members of people with COVID-19.  If you are worried about your health, you should contact your personal health care provider for guidance. You can also contact the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) COVID-19 hotline. The number for Chicago residents is 312-746-4835 Monday through Friday during business hours and 311 during evenings, weekends and holidays. People in Chicago can also email coronavirus@chicago.gov .  If you live outside of Chicago you can call the Illinois Department of Public Health at 1-800-889-3931 or email DPH.SICK@ILLINOIS.GOV .  Learn more about how COVID-19 spreads .   Are people contagious before they have any symptoms?  People are thought to be most contagious when they are most symptomatic. Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms; but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) are continuing to evaluate this new virus and are taking measures to prevent transmission.  If you are having any symptoms – whether or not you have been exposed to someone – please stay at home.  Learn
more about how COVID-19 spreads .   What do I do if I have been around a person who has since been diagnosed with COVID-19?  If the individual had no symptoms:  Monitor for symptoms Follow all stay at home orders and guidelines on self-isolation. You do not need to self-isolate from your current setting Learn more about social distancing to prevent infecting others  If the individual was having symptoms of cough, fevers, or respiratory illness:  You should self-isolate from others, including those in your home for 14 days Monitor for symptoms If you have symptoms of respiratory illness with fevers, cough or shortness of breath, remove yourself from work or school and contact your primary care provider. UIC students should contact the Student Health Services at University Village 312-996-2901   Someone I have been around was exposed to a person with confirmed COVID-19. Do I need to be isolated?  If you were not directly exposed to an individual with confirmed COVID-19 (within 6 feet without a mask for more than a brief encounter) you should still continue to follow all stay at home orders that are in effect. You should continue strict social distancing and masking.  However, if you become ill for any reason remove yourself from close contact with all others, wear a mask when around others and contact your health care provider or Student Health Services at University Village 312-996-2901 for guidance.   I was notified that I was exposed to someone being tested for COVID-19, what do I need to know?  Testing typically takes 1-3 days to return.  You should monitor for symptoms and practice diligent social distancing and masking at work and home.  If you develop symptoms call your provider and inform them that you have been exposed to someone being tested for COVID-19.   Someone I work with was told to stay home on isolation, should I worry about them having COVID-19?  If someone was removed from campus or work because they have confirmed COVID-19 public health officials and/or UIC Campus authorities will contact people known to have been exposed. If you think you have had close contact (less than 6 feet without a mask for more than a brief time) with someone in campus-mandated isolation you should contact your RA and campus housing administrator for further guidance.  There will at times be individuals on campus that have
been exposed to COVID-19 or have traveled from areas of increased COVID-19
transmission.  They may be removed from
group settings and told to monitor symptoms to prevent any transmission.  All persons on campus should follow social distancing, infection prevention, masking recommendations.   I heard there was someone at UIHealth with confirmed COVID-19. Was I exposed and do I need testing?  UI Health works to identify all contacts of a confirmed case of COVID-19 and notify these individuals and provide guidance.  If you were not exposed (less than 6 feet without a mask for more than a brief encounter), and you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, you do not need testing for COVID-19.  However, regardless of any exposure if you have symptoms of respiratory illness, fevers, or cough you should remove yourself from others and contact your provider for guidance or Student Health Services at University Village 312-996-2901 for guidance.   I have had respiratory symptoms and my provider told me that I can’t be tested because priority is currently for severely ill individuals.  My provider told me to isolate myself at home and within my home from others.  When can I return from this isolation?  Your provider should provide some guidance.  Based on CDC current guidance this will likely be:  Resolution or improvement in respiratory symptoms.  ≥7 days after illness onset, resolution of symptoms and  ≥3 days after resolution of fever, whichever is longer.   I am a UIC student. What should I do if I’m sick?  Students who are feeling ill or suspect that they could have COVID-19 should call Student Health Services at 312-996-2901. The clinicians will then advise you to your next steps. You may also contact your CampusCare primary care provider or primary care provider through your health insurance.   I am a UIC student and I am studying/working remotely and feeling ill or I have tested positive for COVID-19. What should I do?  if you are experiencing symptoms and need to
be tested, if you may have been exposed to COVID-19,
and/or if you were tested for COVID-19 outside of Student
Health Services,  Do not come to campus. Isolate at home and contact your provider or Student Health Service at 312-996-2901 for further guidance if you have questions. You do not need to notify Student Health Services if you are COVID 19 positive if you are studying/working remotely  unless you require a medically excused absence to “return to class” (remotely or in person).   I am a UIC graduate or professional student and have been exposed to COVID-19, tested positive for COVID-19, or feeling ill and currently work or interact closely with patients/public/colleagues for training and/or research. What should I do?  Do not come to campus if you are ill Isolate at home.  Contact your faculty supervisor and University Health Services at 312-996-7420 and select the COVID-19 option. The call will be directed to a customer service agent who will ask for demographic information (including UIN and supervisor’s email), any potential exposure, and any symptoms you may have. Please have this information available when making the call. The agent will provide you with information on your next steps. This line is available seven days per week, 24 hours a day. Nurse consultation and scheduling will occur Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Calls outside these times will be returned on the next business day. You may also contact University Health Services by completing this online form .  If you have other/non-COVID  health questions, contact your own health care provider or Student Health Services Chicago: Student Health Services  312-996-2901 Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at 309-672-4977 Rockford: University Medical Services at 815-395-5870 or University Family Health Center at 815-972-1000   Someone I work with or is in a residence facility with me was told to stay home on isolation. Should I worry about them having COVID-19?  If
someone was removed from campus or work because they have confirmed COVID-19,
public health officials and/or UIC Campus authorities will contact people known
to have been exposed. If you think you have had close contact (less than 6 feet
without a mask for more than a brief time) with someone in campus-mandated
isolation you should contact your Resident Assistant and campus housing
administrator for further guidance.  All persons on campus should follow social distancing, infection prevention and masking recommendations.   I live in a campus residence. Do we have new guidelines for minimizing spread of COVID-19?  There is not “new guidance” but rather we are re-enforcing CDC guidelines and State mandated advisories:  Residents and staff should maintain social distancing, i.e. minimize close contact (less than 6 feet with a mask for more than a brief time) “Stay-at-home” orders are in effect immediately and until either revoked or amended by the Governor or by  UIC administration Infection prevention through good handwashing technique while in residence and when outside residence: use of alcohol-based cleansers when hand washing is not possible, cloth face covering and/or mask if you cannot maintain 6 feet distance from others.   Does CampusCare cover treatment for coronavirus/COVID-19?  CampusCare covers treatment for coronavirus/COVID-19 in the same way it does all other illnesses. If you have CampusCare you can review the plan’s summary of benefits on our website at www.campuscare.uic.edu .  Students who have elected CampusCare coverage  and are feeling ill or suspect that they could have COVID-19 should first call their CampusCare primary care provider:  Chicago: University of Illinois Physician Group, Department of Family Medicine at 312-996-2901  Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at 309-672-4977  Rockford: University Medical Services at 815-395-5870 or University Family Health Center at 815-972-1000  Telehealth/E-Visits:  CampusCare will cover telehealth & e-visits with NO COPAYMENT. Students must contact their primary care provider or in-network specialty physicians to set up telehealth & e-visits for their health care needs.  Out of Network Care:  Please contact your primary care physician at Family Medicine for direction on all non-emergent care. Out-of-network care authorized by your primary care physician will be assessed at an in-network cost share and copayment.  COVID-19 Testing  COVID-19 Lab Testing is covered at 100% with no copay  under CampusCare when medically necessary. Medical necessity will be determined by the CampusCare Medical Director.  Check the CampusCare website at www.campuscare.uic.edu/covid-19-information for updates regarding COVID-19 policies.    University operations  Is the University closed and are classes canceled?  Classes are moving online but the university is not closed.  UIC students will start the spring break this Monday, March 16, and it will extend for a total of two weeks. Classes will resume on Monday, March 30, and will be held exclusively online for the remainder of the semester. Classes must be taught at their regular times online so as not to interfere with students’ schedules.   Are the campus bookstores open?  Effective March 20, the UIC Bookstore, Medical Bookstore and the Tech Center will be closed    indefinitely. During the closure, online orders can placed at www.uicbookstore.org .   Are events on campus canceled?  All university-sponsored in-person events are suspended until further notice.   Will dining services remain open?  Yes. UIC Dining Services will remain open in order to provide services to members of the community who remain on campus. On Sunday, March 15th, Governor Pritzker announced that bars and restaurants are to close in the state of Illinois while allowing universities’ dining halls and campus retail venues to modify operations to ensure that we play our part in mitigating the spread of the virus.  During the extended spring break, UIC Dining Services will operate under a modified schedule located at dining.uic.edu .   Is parking available for faculty/staff/student employees who must remain on campus?  Yes. To ease the burden for those faculty/staff/student employees who must remain on campus and normally rely on public transportation but now desire to drive, UIC will offer free parking to them in certain parking lots until the University returns to normal operating conditions. For free parking locations and other details, visit https://parking.uic.edu/coronavirus-free-parking/ .   Are UIC Transportation services available for faculty/staff/students who remain on campus?  The following UIC Transportation services are currently available or are running a reduced service schedule:  Paratransit will remain unchanged and fully available. All Physical Plant Material Distribution, Deliveries, and Moving services (aside from Surplus) will continue.  The following UIC Transportation services have been suspended:  Both Library Shuttles AM and PM Intracampus Shuttles Semester Express shuttle Parking shuttle UI RIDE UIC Night Ride  Learn more about Transportation services.   Where do I find information about ACCC operational status?  ACCC is committed to ensuring the UIC community is able to continue their daily work as smoothly as possible while remaining safe and healthy.  For details on ACCC’s operational levels and service impacts, please visit https://accc.uic.edu/reduced-operations  Additionally, technology resources are available to students, faculty, and staff, available at https://accc.uic.edu/support/academic-continuity  Please contact ACCC with any questions at consult@uic.edu   Can I workout, swim or use the Campus Recreation centers on campus?  Effective Tuesday, March 17, all Campus Recreation facilities will be closed indefinitely.  Learn more about Campus Recreation.   How will the University track the fiscal impact of COVID-19?  Please refer to the guidance provided by the Office of Budget and Financial Analysis.    Classes, academics, and information for students  Will UIC cancel classes?  Following an extended spring break March 16-27, classes resumed on Monday, March 30, and are being held exclusively online for the remainder of the semester.   If UIC closes, what will happen to me if I live on campus?  Even though classes are now online, the University is not closed.  Residence halls and dining services remain open to students who choose to remain on campus and will not be affected by the move to online class instruction.  Students living in residences should follow guidance from Campus Housing .  UIC Dining Services schedules are available at dining.uic.edu .   I need technology assistance to prepare for online classes. Where can I find help?  Learn more about student-focused Technology Basics for Academic Continuity .   It was announced on Friday, April 10, that students would receive an adjustment to the amount of Service fee paid during Spring 2020 semester.  When will that adjustment to my account be made?  The staff responsible for processing student accounting are working hard to accomplish fee adjustments, however, there is a manual component required to complete this process. Students with active registration in Spring 2020 should expect to see an account adjustment by Friday, April 24.  Students must sign up for direct deposit to facilitate the fund transfer.  It is suggested that students verify their banking information on file in Banner is up-to-date.   I expect that I will receive a Service fee adjustment. How do I sign up for direct deposit?  Students must enroll in direct deposit with USFSCO to receive an adjustment.  For more about refunds, direct deposit, and free banking options see www.paymybill.uillinois.edu   I still owe money to UIC. Will I receive a Service fee adjustment?  Any student with money still owed to UIC will get a credit against the balance due.   Will campus bookstores remain open?  Effective March 20, the UIC Bookstore, Medical Bookstore and the Tech Center will be closed indefinitely. During the closure, online orders can placed at www.uicbookstore.org .   Will student events and meetings continue on campus?  Effective Friday, March 13, all university-sponsored events with more than 50 people are suspended until further notice.  This includes student organization activities at various UIC locations and off-campus. The Center for Student Involvement will remain open on campus to respond to phone calls and emails.  For additional information please visit http://involvement.uic.edu .   Will athletic events take place on campus?  All athletic competitions and team practices have been suspended.  All camps, clinics and third-party events scheduled to be hosted at athletics facilities have also been suspended.  The athletics department has also suspended all recruiting travel by its coaches, as well as official and unofficial visits to campus by prospective student-athletes.   Can I workout, swim or use the Recreation Centers on campus?  Effective Tuesday, March 17, all Campus Recreation facilities will be closed indefinitely.  Learn more about Campus Recreation.    Applicants and prospective students  Can I still apply to UIC?  UIC continues to accept undergraduate first-year and transfer applications for the Fall 2020 semester. Visit the COVID-19 Impact on UIC Admissions page for the most up-to-date information on application deadlines, credential submission, the best way to contact the office, event alternatives and more.   Are campus visits, tours and information sessions being affected at this time?  Programming for admitted and prospective students are being offered virtually. Please visit the UIC Nexus to review options.    Support services for students  Need academic and other study help?  There are a number of academic and advising support services available to you.   Feeling isolated?  The Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change are coming up with all kinds of creative ways to stay connected during this time. Never visited a Center before? That is okay. They are excited to welcome you to one of their virtual communities.  The Counseling Center is meeting with students virtually and continues to offer after-hours crisis care.   Concerned about food insecurity?  The Wellness Center’s Pop-Up Food Pantry is open every Tuesday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m.   Concerned about safety?  In the case of an emergency, please contact UIC Police or your local emergency services.  The Campus Advocacy Network is a confidential resource available to provide support and advocacy for students who have experienced interpersonal violence. Advocates are available to meet by phone, videoconference, and online chat.   Concerned about employment?  Career Services staff are available for virtual appointments, and they have lots of information about current short-term, long-term and summer employment opportunities.   Have other concerns?  The U & I Care Program is here for you as a resource should you require additional support.  Visit dream.uic.edu for a wide variety of information and resources for undocumented students.  Please reach out to the Office of the Dean of Students at dos@uic.edu and their staff are happy to help you find resources.    UIC Human Resources  Where can managers and employees find the latest updates and FAQs from UIC Human Resources during COVID-19?  Thank you to all of the dedicated employees across campus who are helping to ensure that UIC fulfills its important education, research and service mission during the COVID-19 pandemic.  UIC Human Resources has established a website to offer guidance and answer frequently asked questions for managers and employees during this difficult time. Please visit https://hr.uic.edu/covid-19-hr-guidance-to-managers-and-employees/ .  If you have additional questions or require clarification, please contact UIC Human Resources at 312-996-0840 or uichrwelcomecenter@uic.edu .    UI Health hospital and clinics  Is UI Health prepared to respond to suspected or confirmed novel coronavirus patients?  Yes, UI Health is prepared to safely care for any patient suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19 and to minimize the risk of exposure to other patients, visitors, staff and the surrounding community.  During the COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics will remain open and continue to serve the healthcare needs of our community. UI Health has been continuously adapting to protect the health and safety of our patients, visitors, and staff.  All patients and providers at UI Health are screened for temperature and symptoms, based on the latest guidelines from public health officials. All health care providers who interact with patients suspected or confirmed to have novel coronavirus are monitored and protected.  More information about UI Health’s response to COVID-19 is available online .   If I think I have been exposed to COVID-19, what should I do?  Before coming in for your visit or the emergency department, call UI Health at 866-600-CARE to consult with a health care professional about what you should do if you are having symptoms that include fever, cough or shortness of breath.  If you have questions about COVID-19, you can also contact the Illinois Department of Public Health hotline at 1-800-889-3931 or email at dph.sick@illinois.gov.  Learn more about COVID-19, symptoms, and how to prevent spreading the virus.   How can I protect myself from getting COVID-19?  The most important steps to take are the same for every cold and flu season:  Get a flu shot if you have not gotten it yet. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze—remember to wash your hands afterward. Avoid close contact with sick people. If you are sick, stay home from school or work for at least 24 hours after your fever is gone except to get medical care or for other necessities. Clean and disinfect surfaces and objects that may be contaminated with germs.  More frequent questions and answers for UI Health patients are available online .   Can I get screened for COVID-19?  UI Health has established various locations throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing. Currently, only individuals with symptoms are being tested. If you are interested in being evaluated or tested for COVID-19 at one of our outpatient locations, please do the following:  Call 866.600.CARE (2273) to speak with a nurse. After answering a series of questions about your symptoms and exposure, the nurse will let you know if you would benefit from a visit. If you are recommended to be evaluated or tested for COVID-19, an appointment will be scheduled for you at either a drive-thru or evaluation clinic.  If you do not have acute emergent care needs do not go to the Emergency Department, Urgent Care, or walk into clinic, call first for guidance.  More information on testing at UI Health is available online .   How can I contribute to the resource needs of our clinical enterprise?  There are many ways you can help support UIC’s clinical enterprise during the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit our “ Help During the COVID-19 Pandemic ” page on the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs website for information on donating PPE, meals or financial gifts to support our students and our health system during this time.      Travel and study abroad  I have recently returned from an international trip. What should I do?  If you are
a student, faculty or staff and have recently returned from international
travel from an area with COVID-19 activity:  Students should contact Student Health at University Village at 312-996-2901 for guidance. Employees should contact University Health Service at 312-996-7420 during business hours for guidance.  Specifically,
if you have recently returned from any country with a CDC Travel Alert
Level 3 :  Stay home and monitor your health for up to 14 days. If you are ill, you should contact your health care provider for guidance. Your health care provider will ask questions about where you have visited, your symptoms, and, if needed, provide recommendations from the local health department. You should call ahead before going to a doctor’s office or emergency room. Students should contact Student Health at University Village at 312-996-2901 for additional guidance. Employees should also contact University Health Service at 312-996-7420 during business hours.  If you have
recently returned from any country with a CDC Travel Alert
Level 2 :  If you are ill, contact your personal health care provider and stay home. You should call ahead before going to a doctor’s office or emergency room. Students should contact Student Health at University Village at 312-996-2901 for guidance. Employees should contact University Health Service at 312-996-7420 during business hours. Depending on the activity level and your role you may be asked to stay home to monitor for symptoms.  Learn more about what to do if you are sick with COVID-19 .   I am abroad or plan to travel soon. What should I do ?  We urge everyone to be very cautious and to exercise sound judgment in deciding whether to travel internationally or domestically for personal reasons, including during spring break, and take into account the possibility that you may face quarantine upon arrival at your destination, and/or upon your return. Furthermore, as more flights are canceled domestically and around the world, it may become more difficult to travel back to Chicago. Before traveling, please review CDC travel advisories and restrictions.  More information about travel restrictions .  All university-supported international travel is prohibited . If you are currently traveling internationally on university-supported study or work, we encourage you to return to the United States as soon as possible.  In addition, all University-supported, non-essential domestic air travel is also prohibited .   I am a UIC student currently studying abroad or planning to study abroad. What should I do?  UIC’s Office of Global Engagement and Study Abroad Office are closely monitoring and assessing all international programs daily. UIC policy does not permit students to travel to or participate in UIC-sanctioned study abroad in countries with travel advisories designated as Level 3 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or Level 4 by the U.S. Department of State .  Students with questions or concerns, should check with in-country staff for specific instructions based on your location or contact the Study Abroad Office at 312-413-7662 or sao@uic.edu for up-to-date information.  The University has canceled all summer study abroad programs. We will continue to monitor information from the Department of State, CDC and our partners abroad to decide on Fall study abroad programs by early summer.  Learn more about UIC International Travel Safety Policy    International students, scholars and employees  Where can I find the latest updates and resources for international students, scholars and employees?  For information regarding coronavirus/COVID-19 and the UIC international community, including immigration status maintenance, travel guidance, support resources and frequently asked questions (FAQs), visit the Office of International Services’ coronavirus/COVID-19 update page .                UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     