https://www.math.uic.edu/StatLab
- MSCS@UIC     Skip to content    - MSCS@UIC          About  People   Faculty  Emeriti  Visitors  Staff  Students    Research        undergraduate studies  graduate studies  mathematics education         Skip navigation    home   people    faculty  Faculty listings:   directory   by research area   by position     emeritus faculty   visiting scholars   teaching assistants   graduate students   associates   staff     seminars   today's
	      schedule   complete schedule   schedules by topic   search the archives   post a notice      course info   course webpages  TA office hours  schedule of classes  graduate courses  final exam schedules     faculty research   pure mathematics  applied mathematics  mathematics education  computer science  statistics     special programs    WISEST    MCL    Chicago Symposium    Undergrad Symposium    CryptoClub     learning center   organizations    useful links   about web sites   UIC links   math resources   math organizations   chicago colleges   chicago activities   electronic journals   funding agencies   math software     awards   RTG   Stat Consulting      contact us   department   map   directions     administration   employment   calendar     MSCS intranet     give to MSCS       Welcome to the Statistical Laboratory  The Statistical Laboratory was established in 1985.
It is a joint faculty-graduate student enterprise at the University of Illinois at Chicago and the Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science .
Currently we have eight faculty members and about thirty graduate students .
We provide statistical consulting service for faculty, staff and
graduate students inside or outside the university.
The current director of the lab is Professor Jing Wang .   What We Do  We provide expertise in a wide variety of areas of statistics and probability.
The mission of the Statistical Laboratory is threefold: to provide statistical assistance to faculty,
research staff, and students in all departments at UIC; moreover, we welcome and encourage inquiries
about more in-depth collaborative research projects,
such as the development of new application-driven methodologies; to increase the quality of quantitative
research performed at the University; and to provide an advantageous educational experience to students
of statistics through training as statistical collaborators.
Once a consulting request is accepted, a team consisting of two or three graduate students will work
on the project under the supervision of the faculty members.    Charging Policy  The initial meeting is scheduled for one hour, and its main purpose is for the client to describe
his/her research project to the members of the consulting team so that we may estimate the number
of hours the project will require.  For UIC student clients, it is our policy that the student's
major professor or faculty advisor be invited to attend the initial meeting.  Be prepared to present the background for your research and to explain the problem.
Since the consultant may not be familiar with the terms used in your area of research,
please explain concepts in layman's terms. We may be able to provide some ideas and advice during
the initial meeting, but full solutions are rare at this stage, and should not be expected.
Often, additional interaction between the client and consultants is necessary.
The initial meeting is free of charge, but fees for additional services are generally required.
If more than one meeting are needed, the Statistical Laboratory will charge our clients according
to the following policy:    - For UIC clients, we charge $50 per hour;  - For non-UIC clients, we charge $60 per hour.      Contact Us  If you need statistical advice or consultation, please fill out a brief form and email it to Professor Jing Wang .
Our goal is to contact you within three business days to address your questions and/or to arrange a meeting.  Note: The lab operates during the fall and spring semesters and is closed during the summer.  Click here for the university calendar.    Location  The Statistical Laboratory is located at    Science and Engineering Offices (SEO), Room 527  851 S. Morgan Street  Chicago, IL 60607-7045    Please see the map for the building SEO and parking lot 5.         Web Privacy Notice  HTML 5  CSS  FAE               UIC  LAS  MSCS >  StatLab >  MSCS     