https://today.uic.edu/93327-2
Obituary: Robert Sandusky | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                Obituary: Robert Sandusky  April 13, 2020   Robert Sandusky  Robert J. Sandusky, associate professor and the University of Illinois at Chicago University Library’s associate university librarian and associate dean for information technology, passed away from a long illness on April 10.  During his tenure at UIC,
Sandusky led major technology efforts for the University Library and the
Explore Chicago Collections portal of the regional consortium Chicago
Collections. He served on UIC’s Faculty Senate and chaired the Senate Support
Services Committee. He was also appointed to the Research Committee of the IT
Governance Council and served as chair of the Institutional Stewardship of
Research Data Subcommittee.  Sandusky was engaged
nationally in the National Science Foundation-funded DataONE: Observation Network
for Earth project. He was a co-investigator and member of the Core
Cyberinfrastructure Team (2007-2014), a member of the Usability and Assessment
Working Group and co-chair of the DataONE Users Group.  Sandusky’s research and
publications focused on data management and reuse, sociotechnical systems and
most recently on the application of notions of computational provenance to
libraries, archives and museums.  “Bob’s contributions to the library, the university and the information science community are significant,” said Mary M. Case, university librarian and dean of libraries at UIC. “His early attention to data-related issues helped the Library prepare training and guidance for data management for campus faculty, and his knowledge and eagerness to learn more led to his engagement with the DataONE NSF-funded project. As a colleague, he will be remembered as generous, supportive and thoughtful. He was quiet, but driven and had hoped to accomplish so much more. He was clearly taken from us much too soon.”  Prior to joining UIC in 2007, Sandusky was assistant professor at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, in the School of Information Sciences. He received his Ph.D. in library and information science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). Prior to his career in academia, he spent a decade as systems officer of the Fednet National Network Management Control Center at the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago. He also was a programmer at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) at UIUC and worked at the ComPsych Corporation in Chicago.  Sandusky was passionate
about biking, reading, hiking and camping, music and the Monticello Community
Garden in his neighborhood.  Sandusky is survived by his wife, Lora Lode, and his children, Charles (wife Katy Dittmar) and Kiera. He is also survived by a sister, Barb Campbell.  A memorial service will take
place later this year.     Contact   UIC News contributor   uictoday@uic.edu     Categories   Campus , Staff                UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     