https://medicine.uic.edu/about/deans-leadership
Deans Leadership – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Deans Leadership Home / About / Deans Leadership  Deans Leadership tlowery1 2019-12-18T13:57:24-06:00 College of Medicine: Deans Mark I. Rosenblatt, MD, PhD, MBA Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine Mark Rosenblatt, MD, PhD, MBA was appointed Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine in March 2019. Prior to becoming Dean, Dr. Rosenblatt served as the Illinois Lions/Charles I. Young Chair, Professor, and Head of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of Illinois College of Medicine Chicago. Dr. Rosenblatt is an internationally recognized clinician-scientist. As Director of the Corneal Regenerative Medicine Laboratory, he leads groups of scientists investigating the mechanism of corneal peripheral nerve regeneration following injury, and the use of nanoengineered biomaterials for use in stem cell delivery to the ocular surface. His work in regenerative medicine has been funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense, Research to Prevent Blindness, the Falk Family Foundation, and the Tri-Institutional Stem Cell Initiative. Dr. Rosenblatt has published widely, including over 150 original manuscripts, review articles, book chapters, and abstracts. Dr. Rosenblatt is a graduate of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine’s Honors Program in Medical Education and the Combined MD/PhD program, receiving Alpha Omega Alpha honors. He completed his ophthalmology residency and combined clinical/research fellowship in corneal disease at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Harvard Medical School. Prior to his arrival at College of Medicine, Dr. Rosenblatt was a faculty member in the Department of Ophthalmology at Weill Cornell Medical College, where he served as the department’s Vice Chair and as Director of the Margaret M. Dyson Vision Research Institute. Dr. Rosenblatt also completed his MBA at New York University’s Stern School. Meenakshy Aiyer, MD Interim Regional Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria Dr. Meenakshy Aiyer is a long-time UICOMP faculty member who has held a number of professional appointments, most recently as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, where she was responsible for medical student education. She has also served as head of the Department of Health Sciences Education, director of the Caterpillar Faculty Scholars Fellowship, Internal Medicine clerkship director, and as faculty advisor to the Internal Medicine Student Special Interest Group. Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD, MHPE, MHA Regional Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD, MHPE, MHA, is the Regional Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine in Rockford and a Professor of Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynecology, and Medical Education. A renowned clinician-scientist and academic leader, he has extensive experience in curriculum design and development, administration, Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) accreditation, clinical research, and public service in the field of thyroid and pregnancy. More about Rockford and a welcome from Dean Stagnaro-Green Janet A. Jokela, MD, MPH, FACP, FIDSA Acting Regional Dean of the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Urbana Janet A. Jokela, MD, MPH, FACP, FIDSA is the Acting Regional Dean of the Urbana campus. Dr. Jokela joined the faculty at the University of Illinois College of Medicine in Urbana in 2000. At the College of Medicine, she has served in multiple roles, including Director for the first year medical school course Introduction to Human Disease, Director of the Internal Medicine Residency Program, and Director of Continuing Medical Education. She is a member of the University of Illinois College of Medicine’s Core EPA Team, representing the Urbana campus. She currently serves as Head of the Department of Internal Medicine at the College in Urbana. More about Dean Jokela About Campuses Deans Leadership Executive Leadership Strategic Planning The Strategic Planning Process SWOT Analysis Involvement Mission, Vision, Values Goals and Strategies Implementation and Measurement Feedback College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        