https://medicine.uic.edu/about/about-our-alumni
About our Alumni – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    About our Alumni Home / About / About our Alumni  About our Alumni tlowery1 2019-03-06T11:25:30-06:00 About Our Alumni The UI College of Medicine is proud of its many distinguished alumni, including: Dr. Emil J. Freireich, MD ’49, is a hematologist and a pioneer of clinical trials in cancer therapeutics and treatments for adult acute lymphocytic leukemia. Dr. James A. McDermott, MD ’63, is a U.S. Representative. Dr. McDermott has served in both the House and Senate for the state of Washington since 1971. Dr. Charles Hirsch, MD ’62, is chief medical examiner for New York City. His office continues its work identifying the remains of those killed in the Sept. 11, 2001 World Trade Center disaster. Dr. Julius Richmond, MD, MS ’39, BS ’37, HON ’79, is John D. MacArthur Professor of Health Policy emeritus at Harvard University. He served as surgeon general and assistant secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services from 1977 to 1981. Dr. Richmond was also appointed as the first director of the Head Start program in 1965. Dr. Michael Bristow, MD ’70, PhD ’71, is professor of medicine and cardiology at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center and co-director and founder of the University of Colorado Cardiovascular Institute. Dr. Bristow has been a pioneer in developing new approaches for the treatment of heart failure. He is developing novel drug therapies for heart failure through his two biotechnology companies, Myogen and ARCA Discovery. College of Medicine alumni are active in their communities and in their support for the College of Medicine. Read more about our alumni  CHICAGO  PEORIA  ROCKFORD  URBANA About Campuses Deans Leadership Executive Leadership Strategic Planning The Strategic Planning Process SWOT Analysis Involvement Mission, Vision, Values Goals and Strategies Implementation and Measurement Feedback College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        