https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-admissions
MD Admissions – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    MD Admissions Home / Education / MD Admissions  MD Admissions tlowery1 2020-03-20T13:32:20-05:00 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Office of Medical College Admissions is currently working remotely. Please contact us via email [email protected]  Welcome to the admissions website for the University of Illinois College of Medicine We are pleased that you are interested in applying to medical school and that you have taken the time to visit our website. We recognize that the process of applying to medical schools can be intimidating, and we hope to provide you with information to make the process as smooth as possible. Although University of Illinois College of Medicine is one Medical School, our students currently attend four different campus locations: Chicago , Peoria , Rockford , and Urbana . Beginning with the 2017 entering class, you will effectively be applying to all three of the campuses where the MD program is being offered to new applicants (Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford), and you will be asked upon acceptance for your site rank preference. All campuses offer the same quality educational experience while each offers a unique environment based on the local culture, partner organizations, and patient populations. We are LCME accredited as one medical school and offer the same diploma for all campus locations. Who is a typical student at University of Illinois College of Medicine? In looking back over the 130 years of our medical school, we have learned that there is no typical University of Illinois student and that our students come from very diverse backgrounds with a broad range of experiences and interests. At University of Illinois, we leverage this diversity towards the development and maintenance of a well-rounded education which aims to help all of our students achieve the most throughout their educational career on campus. Why University of Illinois College of Medicine? In addition to excellent faculty, access to a unique set of urban and rural patient populations, and our unparalleled student diversity, here are a few more reasons to consider University of Illinois: You will experience great clinical training early on in the program. Our medical students receive extensive clinical experience which begins in the first two years of their medical education. At all three campuses, students learn best-practices for treating a wide variety of patients, from rural to urban populations. All of our clinical education programs offer focused, skill-building experience in community clinics, major teaching hospitals and other diverse settings. Students develop and practice the critical skills to be a comprehensive clinician with human-based and technology-based experiential learning, including at the Graham Clinical Performance Center and at the Jump Trading Simulation & Education Center . Scholarships. Fundraising for scholarships to make medical education more affordable is our priority. There is no additional application required to be considered. Our goal is to recruit the most desirable candidates and to make their education financially achievable. Groundbreaking research. Medical students have many opportunities to work with professors and fellows who are furthering the practice of medicine with new knowledge about diabetes, cancer, tropical parasitic infections, gene regulation and much more. An example of our excellence in research training is the Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) which trains students for a career as a physician scientist and is offered at the Chicago campus. The MSTP has individuals pursuing graduate study in the academic departments of the College of Medicine, including Anatomy and Cell Biology, Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Microbiology & Immunology, Neuroscience, Pharmacology and Physiology and Biophysics, as well as, non-College of Medicine departments such as Biological Sciences, Bioengineering, School of Public Health, and Biopharmaceutical Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry & Pharmacognosy. Extraordinary residency programs. As one of the largest medical schools in the country, UI COM offers more than 60 residency programs for nearly 1,000 residents across our four campuses which prepare doctors for specialties such as nephrology, orthopedic surgery, family medicine and more.  These residents are a critical part of the education community at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. Successful Match each year. Graduates of the University of Illinois College of Medicine pursue residencies at many of the nation’s top medical institutions in a wide variety of specialties, ranging from internal medicine to neurosurgery. MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Campus Selection Curricular Programs Tuition and Financial Aid Interview Day Student Life FAQs Important AAMC COVID-19 Information Contact UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        