https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-admissions/application-process
Application Process – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Application Process Home / Education / MD Admissions / Application Process  Application Process tlowery1 2020-04-21T11:43:59-05:00 Primary Application: University of Illinois College of  Medicine participates in the American Medical College Application Service  (AMCAS), a centralized application processing service which can be  accessed from www.aamc.org. Applications are available in April and must be submitted by Nov. 1 of the year preceding enrollment. Supplementary Application: Upon receipt of the AMCAS application, the Office of Medical College Admissions (OMCA) will email eligible applicants the link to our Supplemental Information Application that is to be completed and returned to the OMCA by Dec. 1 of the application year. As part of the supplemental application, all applicants to the University of Illinois College of Medicine are required to complete an online assessment ( CASPer ), to assist with our selection process. Successful completion of CASPer is mandatory in order to maintain admission eligibility. Please note that the Supplementary Application fees are no-refundable. Letters of Recommendation: University of Illinois College of Medicine requires a premedical committee evaluation OR three letters from instructors (any field of study) with whom the candidate has taken courses. One of the letters can be from a research mentor. These letters should critically evaluate the candidate’s academic ability, strengths and weaknesses, motivation for medicine, maturity, difficulty of course work and special attributes and assets. Personal letters of recommendation are not acceptable. If the applicant is currently enrolled in a graduate program or professional school, one letter must be from a faculty member at the graduate or professional school. All Letters of Evaluation/Recommendation for University of Illinois College of Medicine should be submitted via AMCAS by December 1st. Any letters sent directly to University of Illinois College of Medicine will not be accepted, will not be placed in the candidate’s application file, and will not be retained in any other form. There are several mediums in which a letter writer can send a recommendation letter to AMCAS. AMCAS will receive letters for users of Virtual Evals, Interfolio, and via standard mail. In addition, letter writers who currently mail letters can opt to upload letters directly through the AMCAS Letter Writer Application. Regardless of the format in which the letter is received, the letter will become part of the applicant’s electronic file. Letter writers should include the AMCAS Letter Request form when sending an applicant’s letter in order to guarantee that the letter is correctly matched to the correct application. The letter writer must include applicant AAMC ID and AMCAS Letter ID (which can be found on the AMCAS Letter Request form). The mailing address to which letters of evaluation should be mailed will also appear on the AMCAS Letter Request form. Application Review: The Committee on Admissions evaluates completed applications on a rolling basis from early July through March. Interviews: For applicants considered eligible by the Committee on Admissions, an interview will be required. The Interview Day will be held at one of the three campus locations where the MD program is being offered: Chicago, Peoria, or Rockford. Decision Criteria: Cumulative grade point average, Science grade point average and MCAT score are considered to assess academic achievement for each applicant. Personal characteristics, such as motivation and communication skills are evaluated. Students are selected who demonstrate emotional stability, maturity, integrity, and the passion necessary for the successful study and practice of medicine. We seek to identify those applicants who will contribute academic, nonacademic, and socioeconomic diversity/heterogeneity to the entering class. Status: If you have already applied to the College of Medicine and you would like to know the status of your application, you can check your application status online here . The Early Decision Program (EDP) – Optional: The Early Decision Program (EDP) is a procedure by which a medical school applicant may request and receive an early decision regarding his/her application to the medical school of his/her first choice prior to seeking an acceptance elsewhere. If this College of Medicine is your first choice, you may participate under the following conditions: Your completed application must be submitted to the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS) by June 15, 2020. The Medical College Admission Test must have been taken no later than July of the application year. Your application fee, Supplemental Information Application, Letters of Recommendation, and additional supporting documents must be on file with the Office of Medical College Admissions by July 30, 2020. Applicants who are not offered admission in the Early Decision Program will be considered in the regular applicant pool by request. Transfer Applicants: We are not currently accepting applications for transfer into the University of Illinois College of Medicine from students currently enrolled in another medical school. MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Campus Selection Curricular Programs Tuition and Financial Aid Interview Day Student Life FAQs Important AAMC COVID-19 Information Contact UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        