https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-admissions/student-life
Student Life – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Student Life Home / Education / MD Admissions / Student Life  Student Life tlowery1 2018-01-04T15:34:48-06:00 Students accepted to the University of Illinois COM will be placed at one of our three campuses offering the MD program to new applicants: Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford. Each campus has a unique culture and student dynamic that enhances the overall character of the school. The University Medical Student Council (UMSC) is the student government organization that encompasses all of the campuses. Some of the committees that students participate in “college-wide”, i.e. across all four campuses, are included here. Additionally, all campuses partner with the Urban Health Program to assist students who are underrepresented in medicine. Chicago Peoria Rockford Urbana Chicago The Chicago Campus is the biggest of the four campuses and houses many of the central services that are offered across the college. Matriculating students have an incredible experience ahead of them with no shortage of interesting urban opportunities to take advantage of. The Chicago campus is part of the larger University of Illinois Chicago campus which is located west of the “loop” in the City of Chicago. One of the unique aspects of the College of Medicine in Chicago is that it serves a wide-range of diverse and under-served patients in the University Medical District, specifically at the University of Illinois Hospital and partnering clinics across the city, all while retaining very close proximity to down-town Chicago and the various unique neighborhoods, such as Little Italy or Humboldt Park that offer distinguishing character to urban living. As a result, we attract a diverse group of compassionate students with a very broad range of experiences and interests to add to the culture here. Students at all four campuses engage in a wide-variety of campus activities, including committees, clubs, and other student organizations. Many students join several as a way to explore and expand their interests. The following link gives some examples of the types of activities that you can engage in while at University of Illinois College of Medicine at Chicago: Student Organizations In addition to the above, there are many other volunteer and leadership opportunities in the local community. Students can explore all the incredible culture that the city of Chicago has to offer. Ethnic neighborhoods and restaurants Museums, major league sports, Lake Michigan Free festivals, parades, fireworks Students all receive a discounted CTA pass to take them anywhere and everywhere. For more information about student life at the Chicago campus, please visit the Chicago student affairs website. Peoria The Peoria Campus is known among students for its small class sizes, rigorous curriculum and hands-on clerkships. Located in downtown Peoria, the medical school campus is adjacent to its two major academic affiliate hospitals which provide access to more than 900 patient beds, a referral patient population of more than 2 million people, a Level I trauma center, a full service tertiary hospital for children, a state-of-the-art medical simulation center, and 20 residencies and fellowships. Located midway between Chicago and St. Louis along the Illinois River, Peoria combines all the amenities of big-city living with the friendly comfort of the Midwest. The Peoria medical school campus is located in downtown Peoria, adjacent to our major academic affiliates, UnityPoint Health – Methodist and OSF Saint Francis Medical Center . Together, these two hospitals provide access to more than 900 patient beds and serve a patient population of more than 2 million people. OSF-SFMC is a Level I trauma center with the busiest helicopter transport service in the State and is also the home of Children’s Hospital of Illinois , the only full service tertiary hospital for kids in downstate Illinois. UnityPoint Health – Methodist serves patients with a wide range of disorders and houses the psychiatry and family medicine residencies.  The Peoria campus has 11 residencies and nine fellowships with more than 260 residents and fellows. The healthcare economy is the largest employer in Peoria. Students also learn and train in the new, world-class Jump Trading Simulation & Education Center . Here, students will find small class sizes and learn from residents and faculty who are approachable, accessible, and who are expert in their field. Students often relate directly to their attending physicians in a community dedicated to education. In addition to a large academic clinical environment, students reside in an exceptional mid-sized city. Named an All-American City in 2013, Peoria has its own ballet and symphony orchestra, is home to an NCAA Division I basketball team, a minor league baseball and hockey team, a world-class zoo and the Peoria Civic Center, which hosts nationally-recognized concerts and live Broadway shows. Peoria has one of the largest park districts in Illinois, including five public golf courses, an indoor skating rink and access to miles of walking/biking paths. Peoria also enjoys a low cost of living and is home to the Fortune 50 company, Caterpillar Inc. The Peoria campus has its own student government which fosters an environment of participation, and students have many opportunities to take part in faculty-guided research, international health care rotations and community service education. Click here for a listing of all current student interest groups one can join while studying at University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria. In addition to the above, there are many other volunteer and leadership opportunities in the local community. Rockford As the third largest city in Illinois, Rockford is full of culture and diversity, arts and education. In many ways, it has all of the benefits of a big city but offers a more affordable, livable community environment. Students at all four campuses engage in a wide-variety of campus activities, including committees, clubs, and other student organizations. Many students join several as a way to explore and expand their interests. The following link gives a listing of student organizations you can join while studying at University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford: Student Organizations In addition to the above, there are many other ways to get involved in activities within the local community. Students can enjoy some of the pleasures of the forest city such as: More than 10,000 acres of parks and forest preserves Adventure trails and nationally recognized public gardens Camping, hiking, biking canoeing, and golfing A very easy commute to any destination within the city Students also have access to all of the more “urban” pleasures of Rockford, including: The Burpee Museum, home of Jane – the most complete juvenile T-Rex in the world The Starlight Theater, an Architectural Digest award winner Easy access to Madison, Milwaukee, and Chicago Urbana Students at the Urbana campus have an opportunity to learn the first-year curriculum with instruction from top researchers and clinical faculty in a supportive and personalized setting. Those who stay in the area for M2 and beyond have the opportunity to learn in excellent community hospitals with diverse patient populations. MD/PhD students in Urbana can choose among a wide array of PhDs from top-ranked departments. Champaign-Urbana (CU), home to the University of Illinois, is a perfect blend of small town and micro-urban environment. Its affordability and high quality of life make it an attractive place to spend a year – or a lifetime. The scale of the cities makes it a great place to walk, bike, or bus. Even if you choose to live on the “edge of town,” your longest commute time by car would be about 15 minutes from your door to the College. The ease of getting around the cities gives you more time to do things other than studying! CU is known for having something for everyone. Whether you have an interest in cultural opportunities, sporting events, outdoor recreation, or volunteerism, there is always something to do. Considered a tour destination for artists travelling between New Orleans and Chicago, CU is often treated to outstanding music and other events in a much more intimate setting than would be offered in a larger city. From Illini basketball, to gymnastics, to volleyball, there are more games than you can keep up with – and plenty of opportunities to play, not just watch. If you enjoy outdoor recreation such as water sports or hiking, CU is 30 minutes from a national scenic river and park to the east, and about 20 minutes from a large county park to the west. Southern Illinois offers even more choices for outdoor enthusiasts. The campus has exceptional recreational facilities within walking distance of the College of Medicine offering everything from yoga, to squash, to indoor soccer. Students often organize co-rec med school teams for both indoor and outdoor sports. Runners and cyclists will find that there are plenty of scenic places to run or ride. In addition to the many community-based volunteer opportunities, there are several organizations run by medical students. In particular, Avicenna Community Health Center and HeRMES (two student-run free clinics for the underinsured) and Campana de Salud (a health fair and clinic targeted to the Latino community) offer excellent opportunities to learn and serve. For more information about student life in the Champaign-Urbana area, this web page provides links to several resources: Student Life . MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Campus Selection Curricular Programs Tuition and Financial Aid Interview Day Student Life FAQs Important AAMC COVID-19 Information Contact UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        