https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-admissions/faqs
FAQs – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    FAQs Home / Education / MD Admissions / FAQs  FAQs tlowery1 2019-12-13T12:51:11-06:00 Admissions FAQs What are your application deadlines? The AMCAS application deadline is Nov. 1 of the year prior to the anticipated start date. The deadline for our supplemental application and recommendation letters is Dec. 1. Do you send supplemental applications to everyone? No, since there is a fee associated with the supplemental application, we send it only to applicants we are seriously considering for admission. What Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) score and grade point average do you need for admission? The mean MCAT score for an admitted person in 2018 was 512 the mean grade point average was a 3.6/4.0. Please note that the committee also looks for other qualities not found in the MCAT or GPAs. The above numbers are for reference only. What courses fulfill the behavioral/social science pre-requisite? You need three courses in the Behavioral/Social Sciences (for example: anthropology, psychology or sociology). If you are applying to one of the College’s special programs (e.g., MSP, MSTP, RIMSAP, RMED, UMED, etc.) please check with those programs to get more details on this pre-requisite. More about pre-requisites… Who should write letters of recommendation? We require a minimum of three academic letters of recommendation or one composite recommendation from a pre-professional committee.  This group of letters should contain only one research letter.  Acceptable letters of recommendations are written by professors, academic advisor(s), thesis supervisor(s) or research supervisor(s).  Personal recommendations are not acceptable.  Letters of recommendation must be completed on official university or business letterhead. More about applying… How can I change my state residency to Illinois? You must live in Illinois for at least one year prior to applying to medical school for reasons other than education. You must rely upon gainful employment in the state or prove reliance upon resources in Illinois. (Loans for education, graduate assistantships or student employment are not considered evidence of intent to establish residency.) <!– See: https://tigger.uic.edu/depts/oar/current_students/residency.html –> What is the minimum degree one should have earned in order to apply? A baccalaureate degree must be earned prior to the anticipated enrollment; it does not necessarily have to be completed at the time of application. If the baccalaureate degree is earned from a foreign school, the applicant must take at least 32 semester hours of course work at a U.S.-accredited four-year institution before applying to the College of Medicine. More about pre-requisites… Will it affect my application negatively if I complete my pre-requisites at a community college? No. What should my major be in undergraduate school? Applicants may elect any undergraduate major. However, certain undergraduate majors will include more of the pre-requisite course work than others. More about pre-requisites… Is there any correlation between campus assignment and campus of interview? No, the campus where you interview will not determine where you will be assigned for medical school MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Campus Selection Curricular Programs Tuition and Financial Aid Interview Day Student Life FAQs Important AAMC COVID-19 Information Contact UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        