https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-curriculum/scholarly-and-research-opportunities
Scholarly and Research Opportunities – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Scholarly and Research Opportunities Home / Education / MD Curriculum and Academics / Scholarly and Research Opportunities  Scholarly and Research Opportunities cthomps 2020-03-23T10:59:51-05:00 SCHOLARLY AND RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES Research and scholarly projects can be YOUR PATHWAY to the career you want! COMMITMENT The University of Illinois College of Medicine is devoted to providing a comprehensive student scholarship experience encompassing the breadth and depth of biomedical research pursuits in modern academic medicine. OPPORTUNITY Our students engage with faculty mentors who conduct innovative, cutting edge research in basic biomedical science and translate fundamental findings into clinical practice and societal health across all University of Illinois College of Medicine campuses and medical specialties. ACHIEVEMENT Research and scholarship participation affords our students with critical analytical, communication, and problem solving skills; offers scientific education and enrichment; enhances residency candidacy and competitiveness; and cultivates career success and maturation into burgeoning physician scientists. Research and scholarship FAQs for Students:  what you need to know before you get involved! Look here for contacts, tips, and links to programs, opportunities, faculty, and information to get involved! Programs Craig Fellowship The Craig Medical Student Summer Research Fellowship program enables medical students who are interested in research and scholarship to conduct defined projects during the summer between the first and second years of medical school under the guidance and mentorship of University of Illinois College of Medicine faculty. More Information James Scholar Program The James Scholar for Independent Study program focuses on supporting and refining research skills among medical students as they develop into clinical professionals. The James Scholar program is designed to support outstanding medical student researchers during their M2-M4 years, with longitudinal research projects culminating in high-level activities, such as presentations at scientific conferences and publication of research papers. More Information Special Curricular Programs In addition to a traditional MD program, the University of Illinois College of Medicine offers specialized medical training pathways that provide educational experiences in unique areas of medical practice. Special Curricular programs include the Rural Medical Education Program (RMED), Global Medical Education Program (GMED), Urban Medicine (UMED), Innovation Medicine (IMED), Clinician Executive Medicine (CEMED), and Innovation in Rural Global Medicine (IRGMED). More Information Joint Degree Programs The University of Illinois College of Medicine offers several joint degree programs in which another graduate degree is earned in addition to the medical degree, including MD/MPH, MD/MBA, and MD/MS combined degree programs. More Information Phase 2/3 (M3/M4) Research/Scholarship Self-Designed Electives University of Illinois College of Medicine students may undertake longitudinal mentored research electives designed to receive from 2-8 weeks (hours) of elective credit. More Information Mentors Program The University of Illinois College of Medicine Mentors program aims to expose students to a variety of medical specialties and integrate the basic sciences with clinical thinking skills. Interested students are matched with a resident or fellow from a specialty and have the opportunity to enter the clinic and receive hands-on training. More Information Resources Searchable Research Project Database The University of Illinois College of Medicine searchable research project database is a centralized resource for students to identify well-defined research and scholarship projects and faculty supervisors who are interested in mentorship. Faculty First click HERE to register for a University of Illinois Google account, then login to Gmail using this account, and then click HERE to post research opportunities for medical students. Students Click HERE to search active research and scholarship opportunities. Featured Programs View the internal and external opportunities listed below for specific information regarding openings and contacts. While not exhaustive, these links are a good starting point and are updated with some regularity; keep returning! UIC Health Professions Student Council: Travel Grants For more information, see:  http://hpsc.org.uic.edu/home/grants-funding/travel-grants The Department of Pediatrics Summer Scholars Program Registration and Paid Fellowship Application are now open! The purpose of the Summer Scholars Program is to enrich the experience of students conducting research in the Pediatric Department. All students working for Pediatric Faculty are invited to participate and all faculty in the Department are encouraged to participate as faculty mentors. Registration into the Summer Scholars Program is completely free. Please click the link below for more information and to register for the program. https://chicago.medicine.uic.edu/departments/academic-departments/pediatrics/research/education/ PAID FELLOWSHIPS AVAILABLE: We also have some funding available for students to apply to. The Fellowship application deadline is March 31 st . Please note: Successfully registering into the Summer Scholars program is different than applying for the Paid Fellowship, and does not guarantee funding. Society of Interventional Radiology Grants for Education of Medical Students (GEMS) Program Click here to learn more HHMI Medical Research Fellows Program The Janelia Research Campus of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) Application System is open for applications to the Janelia Graduate Research Fellows Program. https://www.janelia.org/you-janelia/students-and-postdocs/graduate-research-fellowships The opportunity enables students at U.S. medical schools to participate in a yearlong mentored, basic biomedical research training experience at the Janelia Research Campus, located just outside Washington, D.C. The application deadline is July 18, 2019. More Featured Opportunities Mentor Resources By providing guidance, support, advice, strategic feedback, and other insights to a mentee, a mentor can learn and enhance leadership skills. Click below to learn more about becoming an effective mentor. More Information Mentee Resources Mentorship can have an important influence on student personal development, career guidance, career choice, and research productivity. Click below to learn more about becoming an effective mentee. More Information Tools for Conducting Research Click below to access useful tools for conducting research. More Information Scholarly Activity FAQs Click below for scholarly activity FAQs. More Information Contacts Follow the links below to help identify faculty research and scholarship mentors at the University of Illinois College of Medicine campuses. Chicago Quick Links • Research Highlights • Research Departments and Centers Anesthesiology Please contact Dr. Randal Dull to learn about opportunities. Dermatology Please contact Dr. Michelle Bain to learn about opportunities. Emergency Medicine Please contact Ms. Sara Heinert to learn about opportunities. Family Medicine Please contact Dr. Memoona Hasnain to learn about opportunities. Visit the Faculty Directory to learn more about the Department of Family Medicine faculty and their research interests. Internal Medicine Please visit the Department of Medicine Scholarly Activities website to view opportunities. Neurology & Rehabilitation Please contact Ms. Terenda Jones or Dr. Rita Shapiro to learn about opportunities. Neurosurgery Please contact Ms. Avis Foster to learn about opportunities. Obstetrics & Gynecology Please visit the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology website to view opportunities. Ophthalmology Please visit the Department of Ophthalmology website or contact Dr. Pooja Bhat to learn about opportunities. Orthopaedics Please contact Ms. Theresa Mora to learn about opportunities. Otolaryngoloy Please visit the Department of Otolaryngology website or contact Dr. Jeff Yu to learn about opportunities. Pathology Please visit the Department of Pathology website or contact Dr. Fred Behm to learn about opportunities. Pediatrics Please visit the Department of Pediatrics website to learn about opportunities. Psychiatry Please contact Dr. Olu Ajilore to learn about opportunities. Radiology Please contact Dr. Ron Gaba to learn about opportunities. Surgery Please contact Dr. Amelia Bartholomew to learn about opportunities. Urology Please contact Ms. Kristin Anderson to learn about opportunities. Peoria View the Medical Students Scholarly and Research Projects (6.7 MB; PDF) for contact and general information. Students may also consult Dr. Bento De Mello Soares , the Associate Dean for Research on the Peoria campus, directly. Rockford View research opportunities for students . Visit the Office of Research in Rockford for information regarding their services to connect students to research faculty. Students may also consult Dr. Sherry Falsetti , the Associate Dean for Research on the Rockford campus, directly. Urbana View clinical research opportunities for students . Additional research opportunities can also be found through the Residency programs . Share Your Feedback Please let us know if you have comments and suggestions, if you are experiencing any issues, or want to share a scholarly or research opportunity by filling out the feedback form HERE . We are able to provide helpful updates for everyone based on comments and feedback from users like you. Thank you! UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        