https://medicine.uic.edu/about/university-of-illinois-college-of-medicine-history
University of Illinois College of Medicine History – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    University of Illinois College of Medicine History Home / About / University of Illinois College of Medicine History  University of Illinois College of Medicine History tlowery1 2019-03-06T11:26:17-06:00 Brief History of the College of Medicine In the late 1800s, disease in Chicago was rampant, as was common in the area at that time. One in six children died of diphtheria, cholera or dysentery, and the role of bacteria in disease transmission was still a new discovery. Although six medical schools were already in existence, five physician-educators: Charles Warrington Earle, Abraham Reeves Jackson, Daniel Atkinson King Steele, Samuel McWilliams and Leonard St. John—decided to open their own proprietary medical school. The gentlemen pooled together $5,541.78, purchased a piece of land and secured a certificate of incorporation. The new school, located on Harrison and Honore streets, was named the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Chicago (commonly referred to as P&S). Its doors opened on Sept. 26, 1882, with a class of 100 students and a faculty of 27 physicians. At the West Side Free Dispensary, located on the first floor of the medical school, students in small groups could observe pathological cases and their treatment. Patients were classified according to the affected area or system of the body: heart, lungs, eyes, ears, skin or nervous system. The dispensary also furnished material for college clinics in medicine, surgery, gynecology, obstetrics, ophthalmology, neurology and pediatrics. In its first three years, the dispensary registered 20,353 patients and dispensed 17,347 prescriptions. Other charitable organizations created in Chicago around the same time included the new Hull-House, a social services institution opened by Jane Addams in 1889. The original house remains as part of the University of Illinois at Chicago campus, along with the restored settlement dining hall. In 1913, after years of negotiations, the P&S faculty and alumni donated stock to the University of  Illinois Board of Trustees to establish the University of Illinois College of Medicine. In 1970, the Illinois legislature voted to expand the college to three additional sites: Peoria, Rockford and Urbana. Their purpose was to provide access to care for all citizens in the state and increase opportunities for Illinois residents to attend medical school. Present The College of Medicine maintains an internationally renowned faculty of approximately 4,000 across the four sites. Various types of professional service are rendered by its physicians, such as primary care, specialty practice, research, teaching, preventative medicine and administration. Medical students have the opportunity to become familiar with several professional roles and to choose the role best-suited for their individual goals and abilities. The surrounding health science center , of which the University of Illinois College of Medicine is a part, also comprises the colleges of Nursing,  Pharmacy,  Dentistry, and Applied Health Sciences , and the School of Public Health. About Campuses Deans Leadership Executive Leadership Strategic Planning The Strategic Planning Process SWOT Analysis Involvement Mission, Vision, Values Goals and Strategies Implementation and Measurement Feedback College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        