https://medicine.uic.edu/education/md-curriculum/curricular-programs
Curricular Programs – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Curricular Programs Home / Education / MD Curriculum and Academics / Curricular Programs  Curricular Programs tlowery1 2019-11-26T10:15:04-06:00 Curricular Programs MD Degree Programs The College’s MD programs prepare students for the practice of medicine with an outstanding science education and extensive clinical experience. Students are assigned to either the Chicago campus, the Peoria campus, or the Rockford campus for the duration of the program. Traditional MD Program: In order to apply to the standard track MD Program, please follow the directions given on the application process website . MD/PhD Program: The MD/PhD Degree is offered through the Chicago Campus’s Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP). The program makes recommendations to the admissions committee for acceptance, in most cases prior to initial matriculation. Apply for the MD/PhD University of Illinois College of Medicine offers admissions to MD/PhD training via the Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), which is available on the Chicago campus. The Medical Scientist Training Program trains exceptional students for careers as physician-scientists.  In comparison to other physicians, MD/PhDs stand out for their scientific insight into bedside problems as innovative champions of progress in medicine.  In comparison to other scientists, MD/PhDs have deeper perceptions of medical significance in biology and a greater ability to transfer basic scientific advances toward patient care.  MSTP graduates routinely gain admission to highly competitive residency programs at premier academic institutions across the country. The Medical Scientist Training Program on the Chicago campus is located in the heart of the Illinois Medical District, just outside of downtown Chicago.  Its extensive clinical and research resources provide an extraordinary and exciting opportunity for the study of medical science. Program duration varies from student to student; however, training generally requires seven to eight years to complete this combined degree. Applicants to the Medical Scientist Training Program must apply to the UIC College of Medicine via AMCAS.  The AMCAS application includes a check box for choosing MD/PhD programs.  When you check the box, the AMCAS application will include 2 additional essays which you should complete. For further information on the MSTP at Chicago, please visit our website: MSTP Specialized Programs: In addition to our traditional MD program, there are four specialized programs which are described below: Rural Medical Education Program (RMED) Location: Rockford campus RMED is a program designed to train and support family physicians in the practice of medicine in rural Illinois. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Contact the RMED office at 1601 Parkview Avenue, Rockford, IL 61107, (815)395-5780, or email [email protected] Global Medical Education Program (GMED) Location: Chicago campus The GMED program aims to train students to be global health leaders. With an emphasis on addressing global health equity, students will gain skills and knowledge to develop careers as global clinicians, educators, policy makers or researchers. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the GMED application on the GMED website and submit via email to [email protected] Urban Medicine (UMED) Location: Chicago campus UMED is a program for students who are committed to addressing health disparities and inequities in access to health care, with a particular interest in the issues of urban, underserved communities. It is a unique program that integrates special UMED activities with the regular medical school curriculum. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Apply to the UMED program online or via e-mail to [email protected] . Innovation Medicine (IMED) Location: Chicago campus The IMED program supplements the existing curriculum of COM by adding an innovation, technology and medical design focus to existing team-based learning groups. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the IMED application on the IMED website . For more information, contact [email protected] . Clinician Executive Medicine (CEMED) Location: Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford campuses The CEMED program aims to train students in the clinician executive skills and knowledge essential to addressing the complex leadership challenges resulting from healthcare organizational and health policy changes that impact the way clinicians provide care. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the CEMED application on CEMED Website and submit via email to [email protected] Innovation in Rural Global Medicine (IRGmed) Location: Peoria campus IRGmed offers students the opportunity to experience health care and health care delivery models in low resource settings to gain a deep understanding of the barriers that exist. Core to the elective involves developing innovative tools to solve fundamental problems. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the IRGmed application on IRGmed Website . Joint Degree Programs The University of Illinois offers several programs in which another degree is earned in addition to the medical degree. Joint degree programs enable students to earn an MD while pursuing additional degree paths. Both degrees are awarded simultaneously. The MD/MPH, MD/MBA, and MD/MS are Joint Degree Programs in which some of the training toward the MPH, MBA, and MS may be campus specific, whereas, in most cases, the MD portion of the training can be completed at any of the four campuses. For these programs, first year medical students (M1) are eligible to apply and applications are not due until January 12th during the M1 year. The Joint Degree Steering Committee makes the final decision on acceptance. Click here for important information for 2019 joint degree applicants, and if interested, please complete the application. Apply for the MD/MPH The MD/MPH program is available in partnership with UIC’s School of Public Health. The joint-degree program is designed to prepare students for careers as high-level administrators, consultants and executives in the growing field of public health. The five-year program of study enables graduates to combine clinical knowledge and administrative skills and facilitate delivery of health care services in a wide variety of settings. Applicants to the MD/MPH program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS . During the M1 year, apply to the UIC School of Public Health, which requires completing both the School of Public Health Application Service (SOPHAS) and the UIC SPH supplemental application forms. The supplemental form is submitted directly to the school. For MD/MPH forms and application instructions…. Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in 5 years. Apply to the MD/MBA The University of Illinois College of Medicine sponsors an MD/MBA program that is offered through the Chicago campus and is in partnership with UIC’s Master of Business Administration program. Given the changing, highly competitive world of health care, there is a great demand by health care professionals, especially doctors, for business education. Both the MD and the MBA degree are highly sought after, with many doctors returning to school to get the MBA. The joint-degree program satisfies the demand by making both degrees attainable in five years. Applicants to the MD/MBA program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, (AMCAS), and check the box expressing interest in the MD/MBA joint degree program. During the M1 year, apply to the UIC Master of Business Administration Program through the MBA program at UIC .  Students applying to the College of Business Administration are required  to take the GMAT exam. Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in 5 years. Apply for the MD/MS CTS The UI College of Medicine (COM) and the UIC School of Public Health offer a joint degree leading to the Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Master of Science in Clinical and Translational Science (MS CTS) degrees . The program of study leading to the MD/MS CTS joint degree is offered by the Health Policy and Administration Division within SPH. Applicants to the MD/MS CTS program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service , (AMCAS), and check the box expressing interest in the MD/MS joint degree program. During the M1 year, Apply to the MD/MS program by following the application directions for that program. Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in five years. Click here for a full description of the MD/MS CTS program, including application directions, degree requirements, sample curriculum, deadlines and contact information. Apply for the MD/MS in BioEngineering The MD/MS in BioEngineering program is available in partnership with UIC’s College of Engineering. By using engineering concepts and methods that apply modern technology to health care, this five year program will equip graduates with skills required to prepare them for careers as clinical researchers beyond those obtained in their MD program alone. Applicants to the MD/MS in BioEngineering program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Applications to the College of Engineering can be submitted during the spring semester of the first year. Students at any of the four campuses will be eligible to apply for admission to the joint degree program. Click here for more information Special Programs Pre-MD/Pipeline Programs PAP: The Post-baccalaureate Admissions Program  provides an opportunity for selected individuals to participate in an 11-month structured education process after undergraduate and prior to medical school that enhances the science foundation and essential skills necessary to handle the rigors of Medical Education. SPP: This Summer Pre-Matriculation Program is a six-week academic enrichment program aimed at bolstering students’ basic medical science knowledge and encouraging development of professional and peer support networks during the summer prior to matriculation at the College of Medicine. GPPA: The Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Initiative allows a limited number of Freshman per year to be admitted to University of Illinois (Chicago campus) with guaranteed admission into the Medical School. Students need only maintain pre-set curriculum and performance criteria to maintain their guarantee. This program is currently restricted to undergraduate students admitted to UIC. Special Interest / Special Recognition Programs RIMSAP: The Rural Illinois Medical Student Assistant Program helps qualified applicants from Illinois cover some of their financial needs. Accepted students receive low-interest-rate loans. This program is designed to provide primary care doctors to rural communities in Illinois. Students must be interested in family practice or another primary health care field. Apply to RIMSAP  Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine and the RIMSAP program.  Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service , (AMCAS) Apply to the RIMSAP by contacting Peggy Romba, Program Manager, Illinois Farm Bureau, 1701 N. Towanda Avenue, P.O. Box 2901, Bloomington, IL  61702, (309) 557-2350, or email [email protected] . JAMES SCHOLAR – JS/ISP: The James Scholar Program for Independent Study focuses on supporting and refining research skills among medical students as they develop into physicians and clinical professionals. The program is designed to support outstanding medical student researchers during their M2-M4 years. PCM: The Patient-Centered Medicine (PCM) Scholars Program is one of the first in the nation to explicitly train students to practice patient-centered care. The Program affords students selected as PCM Scholars a unique opportunity to work with culturally and socioeconomically diverse patients from the M1 through the M4 years. RSPP: The Rural Student Physician Program (RSPP) is a 28-week extended clerkship that immerses up to 10 percent of the third-year students in Peoria into a comprehensive educational experience in a rural community setting, integrating the curriculum for pediatrics, obstetrics/gynecology, internal medicine, psychiatry, general surgery and family medicine. The experience is designed to recruit students into rural-oriented residencies and primary care. Summer Craig Research Fellowship: This competitive program provides an exciting opportunity for medical students interested in research to conduct projects under the guidance of the College of Medicine faculty. Richardson Scholarship for International Study: Financial support is provided to fourth year students to complete a clinical rotation abroad. MD Degree Programs Joint Degree Programs Special Programs MD Degree Programs MD Degree Programs The College’s MD programs prepare students for the practice of medicine with an outstanding science education and extensive clinical experience. Students are assigned to either the Chicago campus, the Peoria campus, or the Rockford campus for the duration of the program. Traditional MD Program: In order to apply to the standard track MD Program, please follow the directions given on the application process website. MD/PhD Program: The MD/PhD Degree is offered through the Chicago Campus’s Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP). The program makes recommendations to the admissions committee for acceptance, in most cases prior to initial matriculation. Apply for the MD/PhD University of Illinois College of Medicine offers admissions to MD/PhD training via the Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), which is available on the Chicago campus. The Medical Scientist Training Program trains exceptional students for careers as physician-scientists.  In comparison to other physicians, MD/PhDs stand out for their scientific insight into bedside problems as innovative champions of progress in medicine.  In comparison to other scientists, MD/PhDs have deeper perceptions of medical significance in biology and a greater ability to transfer basic scientific advances toward patient care.  MSTP graduates routinely gain admission to highly competitive residency programs at premier academic institutions across the country. The Medical Scientist Training Program on the Chicago campus is located in the heart of the Illinois Medical District, just outside of downtown Chicago.  Its extensive clinical and research resources provide an extraordinary and exciting opportunity for the study of medical science. Program duration varies from student to student; however, training generally requires seven to eight years to complete this combined degree. Applicants to the Medical Scientist Training Program must apply to the UIC College of Medicine via AMCAS.  The AMCAS application includes a check box for choosing MD/PhD programs.  When you check the box, the AMCAS application will include 2 additional essays which you should complete. For further information on the MSTP at Chicago, please visit our website: MSTP Specialized Programs: In addition to our traditional MD program, there are four specialized programs which are described below: Rural Medical Education Program ( RMED ) Location: Rockford campus RMED is a program designed to train and support family physicians in the practice of medicine in rural Illinois. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Contact the RMED office at 1601 Parkview Avenue, Rockford, IL 61107, (815)395-5780, or email [email protected] Global Medical Education Program ( GMED ) Location: Chicago campus The GMED program aims to train students to be global health leaders. With an emphasis on addressing global health equity, students will gain skills and knowledge to develop careers as global clinicians, educators, policy makers or researchers. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the GMED application on the GMED website and submit via email to [email protected] Urban Medicine ( UMED ) Location: Chicago campus UMED is a program for students who are committed to addressing health disparities and inequities in access to health care, with a particular interest in the issues of urban, underserved communities. It is a unique program that integrates special UMED activities with the regular medical school curriculum. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Apply to the UMED program online or via e-mail to [email protected] . Innovation Medicine ( IMED ) Location: Chicago campus The IMED program supplements the existing curriculum of COM by adding an innovation, technology and medical design focus to existing team-based learning groups. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the IMED application on the IMED website . For more information, contact [email protected] . Clinician Executive Medicine ( CEMED ) Location: Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford campuses The CEMED program aims to train students in the clinician executive skills and knowledge essential to addressing the complex leadership challenges resulting from healthcare organizational and health policy changes that impact the way clinicians provide care. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the CEMED application on CEMED Website and submit via email to [email protected] Innovation in Rural Global Medicine ( IRGmed ) Location: Peoria campus IRGmed offers students the opportunity to experience health care and health care delivery models in low resource settings to gain a deep understanding of the barriers that exist. Core to the elective involves developing innovative tools to solve fundamental problems. Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine (COM) and the respective specialized program. Applicants submit the standard COM application through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Complete the IRGmed application on IRGmed Website . Joint Degree Programs Joint Degree Programs The University of Illinois offers several programs in which another degree is earned in addition to the medical degree. Joint degree programs enable students to earn an MD while pursuing additional degree paths. Both degrees are awarded simultaneously. The MD/MPH, MD/MBA, and MD/MS are Joint Degree Programs in which some of the training toward the MPH, MBA, and MS may be campus specific, whereas, in most cases, the MD portion of the training can be completed at any of the four campuses. For these programs, first year medical students (M1) are eligible to apply and applications are not due until January 12th during the M1 year. The Joint Degree Steering Committee makes the final decision on acceptance. Click here for important information for 2018 joint degree applicants, and if interested, please complete the application . Apply for the MD/MPH The MD/MPH program is available in partnership with UIC’s School of Public Health. The joint-degree program is designed to prepare students for careers as high-level administrators, consultants and executives in the growing field of public health. The five-year program of study enables graduates to combine clinical knowledge and administrative skills and facilitate delivery of health care services in a wide variety of settings. Applicants to the MD/MPH program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS . During the M1 year, apply to the UIC School of Public Health, which requires completing both the School of Public Health Application Service (SOPHAS) and the UIC SPH supplemental application forms. The supplemental form is submitted directly to the school. For MD/MPH forms and application instructions…. Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in 5 years. Apply to the MD/MBA The University of Illinois College of Medicine sponsors an MD/MBA program that is offered through the Chicago campus and is in partnership with UIC’s Master of Business Administration program. Given the changing, highly competitive world of health care, there is a great demand by health care professionals, especially doctors, for business education. Both the MD and the MBA degree are highly sought after, with many doctors returning to school to get the MBA. The joint-degree program satisfies the demand by making both degrees attainable in five years. Applicants to the MD/MBA program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, (AMCAS), and check the box expressing interest in the MD/MBA joint degree program. During the M1 year, apply to the UIC Master of Business Administration Program through the MBA program at UIC .  Students applying to the College of Business Administration are required  to take the GMAT exam. Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in 5 years. Apply for the MD/MS CTS The UI College of Medicine (COM) and the UIC School of Public Health offer a joint degree leading to the Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Master of Science in Clinical and Translational Science (MS CTS) degrees. The program of study leading to the MD/MS CTS joint degree is offered by the Health Policy and Administration Division within SPH. Applicants to the MD/MS CTS program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service , (AMCAS), and check the box expressing interest in the MD/MS joint degree program. During the M1 year, Apply to the MD/MS program by following the application directions for that program which can be found here . Length of Program: Full-time students may complete the degree in five years. Apply for the MD/MS in BioEngineering The MD/MS in BioEngineering program is available in partnership with UIC’s College of Engineering. By using engineering concepts and methods that apply modern technology to health care, this five year program will equip graduates with skills required to prepare them for careers as clinical researchers beyond those obtained in their MD program alone. Applicants to the MD/MS in BioEngineering program must: Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service, AMCAS. Applications to the College of Engineering can be submitted during the spring semester of the first year. Students at any of the four campuses will be eligible to apply for admission to the joint degree program. Click here for more information Special Programs Special Programs Pre-MD/Pipeline Programs PAP: The Post-baccalaureate Admissions Program provides an opportunity for selected individuals to participate in an 11-month structured education process after undergraduate and prior to medical school that enhances the science foundation and essential skills necessary to handle the rigors of Medical Education. SPP: This Summer Pre-Matriculation Program is a six-week academic enrichment program aimed at bolstering students’ basic medical science knowledge and encouraging development of professional and peer support networks during the summer prior to matriculation at the College of Medicine. GPPA: The Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions Initiative allows a limited number of Freshman per year to be admitted to University of Illinois (Chicago campus) with guaranteed admission into the Medical School. Students need only maintain pre-set curriculum and performance criteria to maintain their guarantee. This program is currently restricted to undergraduate students admitted to UIC. Special Interest / Special Recognition Programs RIMSAP: The Rural Illinois Medical Student Assistant Program helps qualified applicants from Illinois cover some of their financial needs. Accepted students receive low-interest-rate loans. This program is designed to provide primary care doctors to rural communities in Illinois. Students must be interested in family practice or another primary health care field. Apply to RIMSAP  Applicants must apply separately to the College of Medicine and the RIMSAP program.  Apply to the UI College of Medicine through the American Medical College Application Service , (AMCAS) Apply to the RIMSAP by contacting Peggy Romba, Program Manager, Illinois Farm Bureau, 1701 N. Towanda Avenue, P.O. Box 2901, Bloomington, IL  61702, (309) 557-2350, or email [email protected] . JAMES SCHOLAR – JS/ISP: The James Scholar Program for Independent Study focuses on supporting and refining research skills among medical students as they develop into physicians and clinical professionals. The program is designed to support outstanding medical student researchers during their M2-M4 years. PCM: The Patient-Centered Medicine (PCM) Scholars Program is one of the first in the nation to explicitly train students to practice patient-centered care. The Program affords students selected as PCM Scholars a unique opportunity to work with culturally and socioeconomically diverse patients from the M1 through the M4 years. RSPP: The Rural Student Physician Program (RSPP) is a 28-week extended clerkship that immerses up to 10 percent of the third-year students in Peoria into a comprehensive educational experience in a rural community setting, integrating the curriculum for pediatrics, obstetrics/gynecology, internal medicine, psychiatry, general surgery and family medicine. The experience is designed to recruit students into rural-oriented residencies and primary care. Summer Craig Research Fellowship: This competitive program provides an exciting opportunity for medical students interested in research to conduct projects under the guidance of the College of Medicine faculty. Richardson Scholarship for International Study: Financial support is provided to fourth year students to complete a clinical rotation abroad. Education MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2021 Graduates and forward) MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2019 and 2020 Graduates) Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (USMC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors DMSLE Notes Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        