https://medicine.uic.edu/education/educational-environment/college-policy-guidelines/examples-of-negative-behaviors
Examples of Negative Behaviors – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Examples of Negative Behaviors Home / Education / Educational Environment / College Policy & Guidelines / Examples of Negative Behaviors  Examples of Negative Behaviors bethm 2019-03-05T13:45:15-06:00 Examples of Negative Behavior The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of behaviors that may be considered mistreatment, lend to a suboptimal learning environment, and/or create concern for patient safety and, therefore, should be reported to the DMSLE : Mistreatment AAMC Examples Publicly embarrassed or humiliated. Physically harmed or threatened with physical harm. Required to perform personal services. Subjected to offensive sexist remarks. Denied opportunities for training or rewards based solely on gender. Received lower evaluation or grades solely because of gender. Subjected to unwanted sexual advances. Other Examples Threatening to or actually grading, promoting, or otherwise evaluating a student on any basis other than that student’s academic/clinical performance or competency (e.g., on the basis of the student’s race, color, religion/religious beliefs, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, order of protection status, genetic information, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or unfavorable discharge from the military or status as a protected veteran). Verbally abusing, attacking and/or harassing a student in a manner that fails to respect the student’s dignity, whether in public or private, in jest or in an attempt to reinforce learning. Use of threatening or intimidating behavior or words. Using obscenities, profanity or pejorative (e.g., racially/culturally-derived/gender-based) terms or names directed at or in the presence of a student. Unwarranted exclusion from reasonable learning opportunities. Endangering a student’s professional development by instructing the student to ignore institutional policies, or by inviting/encouraging students to do something unethical or illegal. Pressuring or requiring students to exceed established restrictions on work hours. Exploitation of students in any manner (e.g. by asking students to perform personal errands or by taking credit for work performed by the student). Committing an act of physical abuse or violence of any kind (e.g. throwing objects, aggressive violation of personal space, etc.). Engaging in unlawful discrimination or harassment. Engaging in unlawful sexual harassment, discrimination or misconduct, including but not limited to making unwelcome sexual comments, jokes, or taunting remarks about another’s body, attire, appearance, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, or marital status. Suboptimal Learning Environment Examples Inviting students to engage in or actually engaging in a romantic or sexual relationship with the student over which a teacher has supervisory or evaluative authority. Unfairly singling out a student for adherence to higher expectations than others in that student’s cohort. Assigning duties as punishment rather than education. Intentional neglect or lack of communication. Allowing students to witness the behavior described as “mistreatment” above, directed toward fellow students, patients, or others over whom the teacher has authority. Patient Safety Concerns Examples Pressuring a student to perform medical procedures for which the student is insufficiently trained resulting in risk to patient care. Endangering a student’s professional development by instructing the student to ignore institutional policies, or by inviting/encouraging students to do something unethical or illegal. Demonstrating inappropriate behavior directed at residents, nurses, and other staff, which affects the quality of patient care. Education MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2021 Graduates and forward) MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2019 and 2020 Graduates) Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (USMC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors DMSLE Notes Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        