https://medicine.uic.edu/education/educational-affairs/national-initiatives
National Initiatives – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    National Initiatives Home / Education / Educational Affairs / National Initiatives  National Initiatives mlee224 2019-08-21T15:09:52-05:00 National Initiatives The College of Medicine is a thought leader in medical education and was chosen to join national initiatives that focus on how medical students in the United States should be taught, what professional skills students should demonstrate before graduating, how the fourth year of medical school can be most useful to students in gaining experience and being ready for residency, and how to align learners’ experiences from undergraduate to graduate medical education. Core Entrustable Professional Activities (Core EPAs) Pilot Project, a six-year pilot program of the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) Purpose: To identify key outcomes of undergraduate medical education that can be assessed consistently by medical schools and that reflect the most important ways to be ready for residency; to test the acceptability, feasibility and validity of EPAs as a set of activities that could be taught and assessed as a set of standards among American medical schools. Our nine pilot group colleagues: Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons Florida International University Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine Michigan State University College of Human Medicine New York University School of Medicine Oregon Health & Science University School of Medicine University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston Vanderbilt Univresity School of Medicine Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine Yale School of Medicine What did we learn? As part of our national Core EPA pilot work, the faculty of the University of Illinois College of Medicine co-authored journal articles, gave presentations at national and international conferences, and collaborated to conceptualize and design Toolkits for each of the 13 EPAs. One journal article provides an overview of the purpose of the pilot program, and the lessons learned to date. Another article focuses on the concept of entrustability associated with students’ increased autonomy and decreased need for direct supervision as they approach residency – how is it defined and how might it be measured? A third article discusses faculty development approaches to understanding and providing feedback on students’ progress toward meeting the proposed EPA standards. Brown DR, Gillispie CC, Warren JB. EPA-9–Collaborate as a member of an interprofessional team: A short communication from the AAMC Core EPAs for Entering Residency Pilot schools. Med Sci Educ. 26:457-461. Brown DR, Hyderi A, Warren JB. Piloting the Core Entrustable Professional Activities for Entering Residency. Society of Teachers of Family Medicine. https://www.stfm.org/publicationsresearch/publications/educationcolumns/2017/january/ . Accessed: August 21, 2019. Brown DR, Warren JB, Hyderi A, et al. Finding a path to entrustment in undergraduate medical education. A progress report from the AAMC Core Entrustable Professional Activities for Entering Residency Entrustment Concept Group. Acad Med . 2017;92(6):774-779. Favreau MA, Tewksbury L, Lupi C, et al. Constructing a shared mental model for faculty development for the Core Entrustable Professional Activities for Entering Residency. Acad Med . 2017;92(6):759-764. Lomis KD, Ryan MS, Amiel JM, Cocks PM, Uthman MO, Esposito KF. Core Entrustable Professional Activities for Entering Residency Pilot Group update: Considerations for medical science educators. Med Sci Educ. 2016;26(4):797-800. Lomis K, Amiel JM, Esposito K, et al. Implementing an entrustable professional activities framework in undergraduate medical education: Early lessons from the AAMC Core Entrustable Professional Activities for Entering Residency Pilot. Acad Med. 2017;92(6):765-770. Lupi CS, Ownby AR, Jokela JA, et al. Faculty revisited: A systems-based view of stakeholder development to meet the demands of entrustable professional activity implementation. Acad Med . 2018;93(10):1472-1479. Moeller JJ, Hyderi A, Brown DR. Reconciling entrustment and competence. J Grad Med Educ . 2017;9(6):783. Obeso VT, Phillip CA, Degnon CA, Carter TJ. A systems-based approach to curriculum development and assessment of core entrustable professional activities in undergraduate medical education. 2018;28(2):407-416. What is next? The College of Medicine has incorporated key concepts of Entrustable Professional Activities into teaching, assessing, and giving feedback on clinical skills development in our curriculum. Learn more about the importance of EPAs here : Primary goal of the five-year pilot: To demonstrate feasibility of implementing the Core EPAs for Entering Residency framework in the path to graduation of MD candidates. Secondary Goal: To demonstrate improvement in the gap between performance and expectations for students entering residency who have been entrusted on the Core EPAs. EPAs One Page Schematics Carl J. Shapiro Millennium Conference on Transforming the Post-Clerkship Curriculum, May 6-8, 2015, sponsored by the Shapiro Institute for Education and Research of Harvard University. Purpose: to discuss the last stage of medical school (“the fourth year”), the importance of sub-internships and away electives, as well as the residency interview process and its impact on learning and retaining clinical skills prior to entering residency. Our conference group colleagues: Case Western Reserve University Harvard Medical School New York University School of Medicine Southern Illinois University School of Medicine University of Colorado School of Medicine The University of Iowa, Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine University of Massachusetts Medical School Vanderbilt University School of Medicine What did we learn? UI COM recognizes the great burden that the current residency application process places on students, in terms of expense, time commitment, and concomitant decrease in clinical experiences. Please see the Executive Summary for our recommendations. Millennium Conference, May 3-5, 2017: From Student to Doctor: Aligning UME and GME Teaching to Ensure Success Sponsored by the Shapiro Institute for Education and Research and the Association of American Medical Colleges, the Millennium Conference 2017 generated ideas for innovations to bridge the pedagogic transition from UME to GME and align teaching approaches to cultivate active and lifelong learning. Paticipating schools: Harvard Medical School; Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine; McGovern Medical School at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston; New York University School of Medicine; Ohio State University College of Medicine; Rush Medical College; University of Colorado School of Medicine; University of Illinois College of Medicine; University of Nebraska College of Medicine What is next? UI COM continues to collaborate with our colleagues from the Millennium Conference, pursuing unique contributions to the national dialogue about the educational continuum from medical school to residency and beyond. Education MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2021 Graduates and forward) MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2019 and 2020 Graduates) Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (USMC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors DMSLE Notes Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        