https://medicine.uic.edu/education/faculty-development/instructional-methods-and-strategies
Instructional Methods and Strategies – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Instructional Methods and Strategies Home / Education / Faculty Development / Instructional Methods and Strategies  Instructional Methods and Strategies tlowery1 2019-09-05T10:41:43-05:00 Instructional Methods and Strategies A great digital repository is MerlotELIXR . It showcases 70+ multimedia stories that are discipline-specific. This content is not specific to medical education, however, you can gain some ideas on how to implement different instructional methods. We are fortunate that UIC pays for a subscription to Lynda.com. If you are not familiar with it, it is a massive repository of video tutorials where you can learn almost anything. Go to http://go.uic.edu/lynda and log in with your netid/password, and then search for ‘teacher tech tips.’ There are lots of great resources here. Rather than recreate the wheel, here are some excellent resources from UCSF School of Medicine – Continual Professional Learning . Active Learning Active learning refers to the various ways in which learners engage in the learning process that does not include passively listening to lecture.  Some connect the terms ‘active learning’ and the ‘flipped classroom.’ They are related, and here is how: according to Moffett (2015), “[t]he flipped classroom is a pedagogical model in which the typical lecture and homework elements of a course are reversed” (p. 331). The ‘active’ portion refers to the in-class experience where there are engaging activities to promote understanding. Pre-Recorded Lecture Content One way to bypass the standard lecture in a face-to-face session is to create short, to the point, videos on a particular topic. There are many tools that you can use to create these types of videos, and rely on your instructional designers to help with the process. Some examples include: PowToon Dr. Amy Lin uses PowToon to create short videos on various topics in Pathology. Explain Everything (mobile device – works best on a tablet) Dr. Elliot Kaufman uses this tool to create short videos on topics related to Medical Genetics. Echo360 Personal Capture This is a free service; work with your instructional designers to learn how to use it. Adobe Captivate UICOM Faculty can get this for a very low cost via the University of Illinois WebStore . Here is an example of the potential of this product, and the templates used. Camtasia Similar to Adobe Captivate, the University of Illinois WebStore sells this product. It is considered easier to use than Captivate with less ramp-up time for learning how to use it. Panopto This tool is similar to Echo360 Personal Capture and replaces ShareStream. There is a significant Blackboard upgrade happening in May 2019, and this tool will be more widely available then. Note: A best practice is to keep your videos UNDER 7-10 minutes. The point of using these tools is that you are not recreating a full hour-long lecture for preparatory material. They should be just one of the ways in which students can prepare for a face-to-face session, where the focus should be on active learning techniques to keep them engaged. See the selected resources below for more information. Polling for Understanding At UICOM we use a product called Poll Everywhere. It is an audience response system that uses mobile devices, Twitter, and the web. Responses are displayed in real-time to promote discussion. Here is a document created for faculty to use it effectively. Mobile Apps According to a 2016 survey on technology use by UI College of Medicine students, 70% of them indicated that they frequently use educational apps on their mobile devices. While we have not gone to a full mobile device implementation for students and faculty, many students already use these devices for educational purposes. As faculty are increasingly using these devices for teaching, we thought it might be helpful to list some resources you might consider implementing in your instructional sessions. The Library of the Health Sciences has a great page listing all of the apps that are available to all UICOM students and faculty. It includes apps such as: PubMed for Handhelds UpToDate Access Medicine (and others in this series) DynaMed Clinical Pharmacology National Institutes of Health Mobile Gallery Subject Specific Mobile Apps Anatomy 3D4Medical ( iOS , Android ) BodyViz ( iOS ) BodyViz in action: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XauajtEFeHo IMAIOS e-Anatomy: the interactive atlas of human anatomy: https://www.imaios.com/en/e-Anatomy Cardiology American College of Cardiology’s Guideline Clinical App ( iOS , Android ) Dermatology DermAtlas (iOS) Infectious Diseases Johns Hopkins ABX, HIV, Diabetes, and Psychiatry Guides ( iOS , Android ) Radiology IMAIOS: Radiological classifications commonly used in medical imaging: https://www.imaios.com/en/e-Cases/Channels/Radiology/Radiological-classifications-commonly-used-in-medical-imaging Dynamic Approach to Diagnostic Radiology ( iOS ) Surgery Touch Surgery – Surgical Simulator ( iOS , Android ) General Healthcare CDC Mobile Apps: https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/healthcareproviderapps.html Mobile Medicine at UIC: http://researchguides.uic.edu/c.php?g=252321&p=1683278 Others: https://ios.lisisoft.com/s/medical.html If you have suggestions for apps to be included on this list, contact your instructional designer. Selected References Brame, C. J. (2016). Effective educational videos: Principles and guidelines for maximizing student learning from video content. CBE-Life Sciences Education, 15 (6), 1-6. Issa, N., Mayer, R. E., Schuller, M., Wang, E., Shapiro, M. B., & DaRosa, D. a. (2013). Teaching for understanding in medical classrooms using multimedia design principles. Medical Education, 47 , 388-396. Moffett, J. (2015). Twelve tips for ‘flipping’ the classroom. Medical Teacher, 37 , 331-336. Norman, M. K. (2017). Twelve tips for reducing production time and increasing long-term usability of instructional video. Medical Teacher, 39(8), 808-812. DOI: 10.1080/0142159X.2017.1322190 Walling, A., Istas, K., Bonaminio, G. A., Paolo, A. M., Fontes, J. D., Davis, N., & Berardo, B. A. (2016). Medical student perspectives of active learning: A focus group study. Teaching and Learning in Medicine . DOI: 10.10080/10401334.2016.1247708 White, C., Bradley, E., Martindale, J., Roy, P., Patel, K., Yoon, M., & Worden, M. K. (2014). Why are medical students ‘checking out’ of active learning in a new curriculum? Medical Education, 48, 315-324. DOI:10.1111/medu.12356 Websites Video Length from Quality Matters Optimal Video Length for Student Engagement Education MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2021 Graduates and forward) MSPE Quartile in Class Calculation (2019 and 2020 Graduates) Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (USMC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors DMSLE Notes Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        