https://medicine.uic.edu/patient-care
Patient Care – medicine  Skip to content Campuses:  College of Medicine  |  Chicago  |  Peoria  |  Rockford  |  Urbana  |  UIC  |  UI Health |  UIC Directory     About  Campuses Deans Leadership Strategic Planning Overview College of Medicine Administration Accreditation About our Alumni Contact Us University of Illinois College of Medicine History Education  MD Admissions Requirements and Timeline Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Campus Selection Curricular Programs Interview Day Student Life FAQs Contact MD Curriculum and Academics Physician Competency Reference Curricular Programs Assessment and Evaluation Scholarly and Research Opportunities Visiting Student Information DME Resources MD Student Services and Support Student Affairs Student Experience Blueprint Specialty Webinars Specialty Resource Directory MSPE Registrar Student Financial Aid and Debt Management Student Honors and Awards MD Student Life Diversity Ceremonies and Events University Medical Student Council (UMSC) Educational Environment Director of Medical Student Learning Environment Reporting Mistreatment or Concerns College Policy & Guidelines Positive Learning Environment Policy Teacher & Student Guidelines Examples of Negative Behaviors Educational Affairs Curricular Innovations National Initiatives Publications and Presentations Accreditation (LCME) The Department of Medical Education (DME) Educational Policies Faculty Development Instructional Design and Support Instructional Methods and Strategies International Education Masters and Doctorate Programs Graduate Medical Education (GME) Research  Vice Chancellor for Research UI Collaboratory Patient Care  Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System Departments  Departments and Centers in Chicago Departments and Programs at Peoria Departments and Centers at Rockford Departments at Urbana News  Events Giving  Office of Advancement at Chicago Office of Advancement at Peoria Office of Advancement at Rockford Office of Advancement at Urbana University of Illinois Foundation  Search for:    Patient Care Home / Patient Care  Patient Care tlowery1 2018-03-21T10:24:20-05:00 College of Medicine Patient Services The UI College of Medicine serves the state across four sites in both rural and urban areas. Patients at all of the campuses receive the highest level of care and attention medicine can provide. We offer everything from preventive medicine and routine check-ups to sophisticated surgeries and cutting-edge treatments. Our superbly trained medical teams are equipped with state-of-the-art technology to provide accurate diagnoses, effective treatments and cures. Chicago —The 495-bed University of Illinois Hospital and Health Sciences System and its outpatient diagnostic and specialty clinics serve as the primary teaching facilities for the UI College of Medicine. The inpatient facility houses some of the most advanced health care and health information management technologies available today. Patient care programs encompass a wide spectrum of health services, with a medical staff comprising recognized leaders in a variety of specialties. The Medical Center serves as a referral site for patients from throughout the state, the U.S. and other countries. The Center’s many additional health care resources include the Lions of Illinois Eye Research Institute, the Light House for the Blind, and the Eye and Ear Infirmary making it a major statewide referral center for eye disease. Colleges of Pharmacy, Public Health, Dentistry, Nursing and Applied Health Sciences also grace the campus. Peoria — The Peoria medical school campus is located in downtown Peoria, adjacent to our major academic affiliates, UnityPoint Health – Methodist and OSF Saint Francis Medical Center . Together, these two hospitals provide access to more than 900 patient beds and serve a patient population of more than 2 million people. OSF-SFMC is a Level I trauma center with the busiest helicopter transport service in the State and is also the home of Children’s Hospital of Illinois , the only full service tertiary hospital for kids in downstate Illinois. UnityPoint Health – Methodist serves patients with a wide range of disorders and houses the psychiatry and family medicine residencies. The Peoria campus has 11 residencies and seven fellowships with more than 270 residents and fellows. Rockford —Patients receive the latest and most complete care available at one of our three primary health clinics. Services are available in a wide variety of specialties, including acute and chronic adult care, preventive health and geriatric care, among others. Patient Care Patient Care at Chicago Patient Services in Peoria Patient Services in Rockford Compliance Patient Privacy: HIPAA University of Illinois Hospital & Health Science System UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS College of Medicine UIC’s seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise. About  Education  Research  Patient Care  Departments  News  Giving INFORMATION FOR: Prospective and Current Students  Faculty & Staff  Alumni & Friends  Patients RESOURCES: UIC Directory  Blackboard  Emergency Information  Contact Us  Apply Now  Give  Contact Us Connect with us!    If you have questions, comments, or problems accessing this site, please E-mail the webmaster  © Copyright 2020 University of Illinois College of Medicine   | Privacy Statement College of Medicine | Chicago | Peoria | Rockford | Urbana                                                                                                                                        