https://registrar.uic.edu/registration/policies_procedures.html
Registration Policies and Procedures | UIC Office of the Registrar         Transcripts  Registration  Contact us  UIC Home      Search:           Top Navigation   Current Students  Current Students   Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Former Students  Former Students   Calendars  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Faculty & Staff  Faculty & Staff   Classroom Scheduling  Faculty Self-Service  Calendars  Classes  Grades  Registration  Textbook Adoption  Student Records Policy    Other Links...  Other Links... sub-category   Prospective Students  AES Staff         Section navigation   Go to Section...  Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies      Home » Current Students » Registration Services » Registration Policies and Procedures     Registration Policies and Procedures   When to Register  Registration Help Line    Academic Load / Time Status  Class Standing  Course Numbering    Prerequisites  Dropping Courses  Late Registration - Drop/Add Period  Eligibility to Register    Holds  Placement Tests  Enterprise ID and Password  Intercampus Registration  Concurrent Multi-campus Registration    Withdrawal from UIC - Fall & Spring   Full 16 week term  Part of Term A  - First 8 weeks  Part of Term B  - Second 8 weeks   Withdrawal from UIC - Summer   Summer Session 1 – First 4 weeks  Summer Session 2 – Second 8 weeks  Full 12 week term  Part of Term A  Part of Term B   Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Undergrad)  Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Graduate)  Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Law - John Marshall Law School)    Student Health Insurance   When to Register  New Undergraduate  New undergraduate students will register for the fall and spring semesters as part of the New Student Orientation Program, which is conducted during the summer months. New undergraduate students will receive information in the mail telling them how to reserve places in summer orientation sessions.  New Graduate  If you are a new, degree seeking graduate student, you will receive advising information from your department.  Continuing Students  All eligible continuing students will be able to view their time ticket (appointment to register) on the web in mid March for registration for summer and fall courses. Time tickets are available on the web in mid October for registration for spring courses. Students in certain Health Sciences professional colleges may receive other registration information from their colleges.  Visiting/Summer Session Students  If you are NOT a UIC student but you are an undergraduate at another college or university and are interested in taking courses at UIC in the summer, you will need to complete a Summer Session Only Application. You can apply directly online on the Summer Session web site at summer.uic.edu . Additional application information is also available through the Summer Session Office - (312) 996-9099 . Once admitted, you can register online through the XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) . You do this during the Open Registration Period, which begins late April.   top of page    Registration Help Line  If you need general assistance with Registration, call the Registration Help Line at (312) 996-8600. The Help Line is available Monday through Friday from 8:30 am until 5:00 pm, central standard time.   top of page    Academic Load / Time Status  During the fall and spring terms, the University considers 12 semester hours as the minimum number necessary to constitute full time undergraduate enrollment (9 hours for graduate students). For Summer Session 1 (Four Week) and Summer Session 2 (Eight Week), UIC considers a total aggregate of 6 semester hours (5 hours for graduate students) as the minimum number necessary to constitute full time enrollment.   For students in the professional programs of Doctors of Dental Surgery, Medicine, Pharmacy, and Physical Therapy, the University considers 12 semester hours as the minimum number necessary to constitute full time enrollment. For Summer Session 1 (Four Week) and Summer Session 2 (Eight Week), UIC considers a total aggregate of 6 semester hours as the minimum number necessary to constitute full time enrollment in professional programs.   top of page    Class Standing  The University requires a student to earn at least 120 semester hours of acceptable credit in order to receive a baccalaureate degree. The exact required number of hours varies according to college, school, and curriculum. Student academic classification is determined as follows:  Class Semester Hours   Freshmen 0 through 29  Sophomores 30 through 59  Juniors 60 through 89  Seniors 90-hour minimum    top of page    Courses Numbering  Courses:  From 001-099: Courses contribute toward the calculation of tuition, full- or part-time enrollment status, and financial aid eligibility. Grades for these courses are not calculated in the grade point average, nor do these courses carry credit towards graduation.  From 100-199: Open to all undergraduates, particularly first year students.  From 200-299: Intended for sophomores, juniors and seniors who have completed 100-level prerequisites.  From 300-399: Intended for juniors and seniors, and sophomores who have completed 200-level prerequisites.  From 400-499: Intended for advanced undergraduate and graduate students.  From 500-599: Open only to graduate students.   top of page    Prerequisites  Prerequisites, if any, are included in the course description. Students are responsible for completing all prerequisites prior to enrolling in a course. For some courses, the student registration system will prevent students from registering if prerequisites have not been completed. Regardless of whether or not the registration system prevents a student from enrolling in a course, the University will not be responsible for a student's failure to adhere to those prerequisites.   top of page    Dropping Courses  Guide for understanding fall and spring course drop calendar:   Online Drop/Add - Fall & Spring   Fall & Spring  Course Length  Deadline  Tuition Adjustment    Part A  First 8 weeks  First Friday of Term  Through First Friday    Part B  Second 8 weeks  Ninth Friday of Term  Through Ninth Friday    Full Term  16 weeks  Second Friday of Term  Through Second Friday      Online Drop/Add - Summer   Summer  Course Length  Deadline  Tuition Adjustment    Summer Session 1  4 weeks  First Wednesday  Through First Wednesday    Summer Session 2  8 weeks  First Friday  Through First Friday    Full Term  12 weeks  Second Friday  Through Second Friday    Part A  8 weeks  First Friday  Through First Friday    Part B  8 weeks  First Friday  Through First Friday of Part B    Part of Term 1-Online 8 Week session  8 weeks  First Friday  Through First Friday    See Academic Calendar  Reduction of Range  For 16-week courses: If you drop courses and thereby reduce your course enrollment to a lower tuition assessment range (e.g. from Range 1 to Range 2), then you will receive a refund of the tuition difference between the two ranges, provided the change is made by the second Friday of fall and spring. No refund for course drops is available thereafter.  For fall and spring Part-of-Term courses: If you drop a Part-of-Term A course (meets for first 8 weeks) and thereby reduce your course enrollment to a lower tuition assessment range (e.g. from Range 1 to Range 2), then you will receive a refund of the tuition difference between the two ranges, provided the change is made by the first Friday of that Part-of-Term A course. No refund for a Part-of-Term A course is available thereafter.  If you drop a Part-of-Term B course (meets second 8 weeks) and thereby reduce your course enrollment to a lower tuition assessment range (e.g. from Range 1 to Range 2), then you will receive a refund of the tuition difference between the two ranges, provided the change is made by the first Friday of that Part-of-Term B course. No refund for course drops is available thereafter. Note: The online drop and add deadline extends only through the second Friday of fall and spring terms for all courses except Part-of-Term B courses.  Part-of-Term B courses can be dropped online through the first Friday.   For summer courses: If you drop a Summer Session 1 course (meets first 4 weeks) and thereby reduce your course enrollment to a lower tuition assessment range (e.g. from Range 1 to Range 2), then you will receive a refund of the tuition difference between the two ranges, provided the change is made by the first Wednesday of that Summer Session 1 course. No refund for a Summer Session 1 course is available thereafter.  If you drop a Summer Session 2 course (meets second 8 weeks) and thereby reduce your course enrollment to a lower tuition assessment range (e.g. from Range 1 to Range 2), then you will receive a refund of the tuition difference between the two ranges, provided the change is made by the first Friday of that Summer Session 2 course. No refund for course drops is available thereafter.  Drop Deadlines  The course online self-drop deadline XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) for all students, is the second Friday of fall, spring and summer full term; the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1; the first Friday of Summer Session 2, and the first Friday of both Parts of Term A and B.  Starting with the third week and ending with the tenth week of the term (second Wednesday of Summer Session 1 and weeks 2 through 5 for Summer Session 2) , undergraduate students may drop individual courses in their college offices, up to the maximum permitted limit of four over the course of their undergraduate degree programs. Graduate students are able to drop with approval of their individual Directors of Graduate Study. (See Adding/Dropping Classes )  Undergraduate and graduate students who drop during this time period will receive a  "W" grade on their academic records. There is no refund for course drops made after the second Friday of fall, spring or summer full term; the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1; the first Friday of Summer Session 2, or the first Friday of both Parts-of-Term A and B .    top of page      Late Registration - Drop/Add Period  All students unable to enroll during advance registration must register during the Late Registration and Drop/Add period which extends until the second Friday of fall, spring or summer full term; the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1; the first Friday of Summer Session 2, and the first Friday of Parts of Term A and B.  Late Registration after Online Drop/Add Period  Students who are unable to register for classes by the conclusion of the online add/drop period may contact their college to find out the late registration petition process.   If late registration is approved a  $50.00 late fee will be assessed.  Adding Classes after First Week  The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences  (LAS) restricts entry into classes after the first week of the fall and spring term, regardless of whether the class is still available. Students are advised to check with the course instructor teaching the class before enrolling. In addition, all pre-requisite requirements for course registration must be met by enrolling students.    Eligibility to Register  Currently enrolled continuing students are eligible to register during advance registration. Information about registration will be sent in an email notification to students. Students who are continuing but not currently enrolled are eligible to register beginning with the Open Registration period. Readmitted students will receive registration information along with their notices of readmission.  You are NOT ELIGIBLE to register if you:   Have lost continuing status (i.e., have not attended for two or more semesters in succession, excluding summer session or approved leave of absence).  Missed the term of admittance.  Were dropped by your college or the University for poor scholarship or disciplinary reasons.  Have a financial indebtedness to the University.  Failed to satisfy the requirements of the Illinois Proof of Immunity Law.  Have any other academic or administrative hold that precludes registration.    top of page    Holds  If you have a hold on your records, you may not register or, in many cases, obtain transcripts until that hold is cleared with the office imposing the hold. A hold may be imposed for financial indebtedness to the University (i.e., unpaid tuition and fees, unpaid library fines), reasons pertaining to unmet financial aid obligations, academic or disciplinary reasons, or an incomplete Medical Immunization Record. If you have not cleared your holds before the start of Advance Registration, your registration will not be accepted until the hold is cleared!  Advising Hold  An advising hold may be placed on your record if you are in a college that requires advising prior to registration. You must complete an advising session before your college will clear you to enroll.  Pending Graduation Registration Hold  Undergraduates who have submitted an Intent to Graduate will have a Pending Graduation Registration Hold placed to prevent registration for future terms.  This hold can be lifted by a college advisor.  College policies vary in regard to allowing students to register beyond the initial bachelor’s degree.  Contact with an advisor is needed when an undergraduate degree is to be earned and registration is sought for future terms.  Please note that students enrolled in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences may only have their hold lifted if they cancel their intent to graduate.  Financial Hold  You cannot register if you are indebted to the University. You may verify your account balance by going to my.UIC.edu and clicking on the Finances tab.  You may clear a financial hold by paying your past due balance. Please visit https://paymybill.uillinois.edu/MakingPayments for detailed information on making payments to the University.  If you have questions regarding your student account balance, please contact University Student Financial Services and Cashier Operations (USFSCO) at usfscohelp@uillinois.edu . Additional information can be found at https://paymybill.uillinois.edu .   Immunization Hold  The Illinois Department of Public Health requires that all students born on or after January 1, 1957, entering a post secondary institution, and living in on-campus housing, are required to present documented proof of immunity against measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, and diphtheria as a prerequisite to registration. Students in the health professions colleges are also required to provide proof of immunity against polio and tuberculosis.  An immunization hold will be placed on your record if you are not properly immunized and have not submitted a written statement of medical, philosophical, or religious exemption. A religious exemption need not be based on the tenets of an established religion.  You will not be permitted to register until you have cleared the medical immunization hold. To clear the hold, you must submit a comprehensive immunization record, certified by a health care provider, to the Office of Medical Immunization Records prior to your appointed registration day.  Students registering only for on-campus courses (including any prior terms) or for more than five credit hours (including any prior terms) are required to comply with immunization requirements. Prior to registering for on-campus courses or for more than five credit hours, students must submit proof of immunity or secure an approved medical or religious exemption.  Questions pertaining to acceptable proof of immunity may be directed to:   Office of Medical Immunization Records Office of the Registrar, MC 018
            University of Illinois at Chicago
            Suite 1200 Student Services Building
            1200 West Harrison Street
            Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161
            (312) 413-0464
            8:30 am-5:00 pm, Monday through Friday  International Student Hold  An International Student Hold is placed on your record if you are a new International Student. Only by checking in with the Office of International Services (OIS) will you be cleared to enroll for classes. OIS is located in 2160 Student Services Building (SSB).  New Student Hold (LAS)  The College of Liberal Arts and sciences  (LAS) has mandatory freshmen advising in place for all of its first year students. All LAS students, who are in their first year of enrollment, are affected and must consult an LAS academic counselor before they will be able to register.   top of page    Placement Tests  Placement tests are required for admission to introductory courses in mathematics, chemistry, composition, and foreign languages. These tests are included in the Pre-enrollment Evaluation Program (PEP) administered to newly admitted UIC students. Students (1) who did not take the required tests during the PEP testing, or (2) whose placement test results have expired (consult the specific department) are required to take the tests prior to registering for these courses. Students required to take more than one placement test may need to attend more than one testing session. Students who have not taken placement tests will be able to take placement tests through the Office of Testing Services .   top of page    Enterprise ID and Password  An Enterprise ID and Password are required to register. Newly admitted students should claim their Enterprise IDs and Passwords well in advance of registering. New students should refer to instructions provided through the UIC personalized information gateway, called my.UIC.edu , at https://my.uic.edu/ . Information on how to access my.UIC.edu is also provided to new students along with their admission packets. Claiming the Enterprise ID and Password allows students to access a range of services, including the following: submitting the Intent-to-Enroll online, reserving a place in a New Student Orientation Program (for undergraduates), and accessing XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) , the registration, records and billing access system for students at UIC.  To access online registration go to Enterprise Application Login page at https://apps.uillinois.edu , select Student & Faculty Self-Service, and then select University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC).   top of page    Intercampus Registration  Intent of the Program  The intent of the Intercampus Registration Program is to allow students at one campus of the University the opportunity to take advantage of experiences unique to another campus of the University without having to transfer. It is not designed to replace concurrent enrollment or transfer. The program also provides for summer enrollment at another University campus.  How the program works  If a student is interested in participating in the program the student should:   Obtain information on the availability of the desired course(s) at the host campus. Assistance may be obtained from the following people:   UIC : Ryan Clements, Registration and Records Specialist, Office of Registration and Records, 1217 Student Services Building, (312) 996-9581  UIS : Evan Stanley, Student Enrollment Coordinator, Admissions & Records, SAB 20, (217) 206-6389  UIUC : Jessica Orban, Registration Services, Admissions & Records Office, 901 W. Illinois Street, (217)-333-6565   Obtain a copy of the Intercampus Registration application form (pdf). The form may also be obtained from your Registrar's Office listed above.  Complete the Intercampus Registration application form (pdf) and obtain a signature of authorization from home college Dean. The Dean should review the proposed courses and approve their transfer.  Submit the completed, signed form to the Registrar's Office on the home campus by the appropriate deadline. Deadlines are May 15 for summer intercampus enrollment**; August 15 for the fall term; and December 15 for the spring term.  **NOTE: For students attending UIC Summer Session, application deadlines vary:  mid May for the Four-Week Session, early June for the Eight-Week Session .  Review the Summer Session web site at summer.uic.edu for specific deadline dates. Additional application information is also available through the Summer Session Office - (312) 996-9099 or (800) 625-2013.  Provide a permanent, valid mailing address on the application, so that the host campus can provide the notification of acceptance information about how and when to register, and other necessary information to the student.  Clear all encumbrances at the home campus prior to the start of the term at the host campus.  Note that financial aid for students participating in the Intercampus Registration Program will take longer to process. Aid for students registered for fall or spring terms will not be available until the fourth or fifth week of the term. Aid for the summer term will not be available until late June or early July. Notify the Financial Aid Office on the home campus of plans to enroll at the host campus so that financial aid will continue.  Notify the home campus Financial Aid Office of any withdrawal or reduction in your course load at the host campus. Such changes may result in reduced financial aid eligibility. Failure to do so will result in having to repay the home campus Financial Aid Office for aid received above that appropriate for the load taken.   Follow the refund policies of the host campus, since billing and refunds will be done through the host campus.    top of page   Concurrent Multi-campus Registration  The Concurrent Registration program is intended to allow UIC students to enroll for courses during a given semester on more than one campus of the University of Illinois. The approval process originates in the student's own department/college by filling out the Application for Concurrent Registration .   top of page   Fall and spring withdrawal from UIC  To officially withdraw from the University for fall and spring semesters, you must follow the established procedure outlined below:  Before the start of fall or spring classes:  Cancellation of Registration (100% Refund)   To drop all of your courses by 11:59pm by the second Friday of fall or spring* means that you are canceling your total registration for that term. You are able to cancel your registration in one of two ways:   Online ( XE Registration system ): You must drop all your fall or spring courses by 11:59pm by the second Friday of fall or spring ( for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here ) of the term to receive a 100% refund. The system allows you to web-drop all of your classes via XE Registration. Students must drop all of their courses by 11:59pm by the second Friday ( for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here ) of fall or spring. Your student account will be adjusted accordingly.    Online (Student Self-Service system): You must drop all your fall or spring courses by 11:59pm by the second Friday of fall or spring ( for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here ) of the term to receive a 100% refund. The system allows you to drop all but your last class yourself; you then must select the "Withdraw from Term / Cancel Registration" menu item on the "Registration" menu of Student Self-Service. The UIC Student Self-Service request to drop your last class must be received by the Registration Office by 11:59pm by the second Friday ( for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here ) of fall or spring. After submitting the request, the Office of the Registrar will cancel your registration within two business days. Your student account will be adjusted accordingly.
 3.	In-Person: You can complete a "Cancellation of Registration" form at the reception desk in the Office of the Registrar, 1200 Student Services Building (SSB), no later than 5:00pm of the second Friday of fall or spring (for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here).
                *Please note: This policy is effective Spring 2011 on forth.
 You must follow one of these  In-Person: You can complete a "Cancellation of Registration" form at the reception desk in the Office of the Registrar, 1200 Student Services Building (SSB), no later than 5:00pm of the second Friday of fall or spring ( for deadlines on Part of Term courses click here ).   *Please note: This policy is effective Spring 2011 on forth.  You must follow one of these three procedures or your registration will not be properly cancelled, and you will be obligated to pay tuition and fees for the term according to University policies (See Pro-Rata Refund Schedule ). You can get more information by calling the Registration Help Line at (312) 996-8600 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM Central Time Monday - Friday.  After classes begin:  After the second Friday of the Fall or Spring term:  A withdrawal after the second Friday means you will issued W’s instead of traditional grades for all the courses you are registered for during the semester. The W’s will appear on your academic transcript but they will not affect your GPA. Depending on the date of withdrawal you may be eligible to receive a pro-rated refund. Please see our refund schedule. /financial_matters/refund_schedule  To withdraw from all of your courses after the second Friday of the Fall or Spring term you must submit a Term Withdrawal Request at http://registrar.uic.edu/registration/term-withdrawal . Consult your college for more specific withdrawal policies. You cannot withdraw via XE Registration after the second Friday of fall and spring except for Parts of Term B courses only .  Withdrawal to Enter U.S. Military Service Due to National Emergency  See:   Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Undergrad)  Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Graduate)  Withdrawal from UIC - Military (Law - John Marshall Law School)    top of page    Summer withdrawal from UIC  To officially withdraw from the University in summer, refer to the chart below and follow the procedure outlined below:    Part of summer term  Part of summer term length and dates  Last day students can cancel registration with 100% refund  Deadline for withdrawal online with no W on record:    Summer Session 1  First 4 weeks   First Wednesday  First Wednesday    Summer Session 2  Second 8 weeks  First Friday  First Friday    Full term  12 weeks  Second Friday  Second Friday    Part of Term A  8 weeks  First Friday  First Friday    Part of Term B  8 weeks  First Friday  First Friday    Part of Term 1-Online 8 Week Session  8 weeks  First Friday  First Friday    Cancellation of Registration and 100% Refund period:  You must cancel your registration by the deadline dates ( academic calendar ) applicable to your summer session in order to avoid tuition and fee assessment. You must follow one of these three procedures or your registration will not be properly cancelled, and you will be obligated to pay tuition and fees for the term according to University policies (See Pro-Rata Refund Schedule ). You can get more information by calling the Registration Help Line at (312) 996-8600 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM central time Monday through Friday.   Online (XE Registration System): You must drop all your Summer Session 1, Summer Session 2, Full Term, Parts-of-Term A and B, or Part of Term 1-Online 8 Week Session courses by the end of the online add/drop period to receive a 100% refund. The system allows you to web-drop all of your courses via XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) . Students must drop all of their courses by the posted deadline. Your student account will be adjusted accordingly.    Online (Student Self-Service system) : You must drop all your Summer Session 1, Summer Session 2, Full Term, Parts-of-Term A and B, or Part of Term 1-Online 8 Week Session courses by the end of the online add/drop period to receive a 100% refund. The system allows you to drop all but your last class yourself; you then must select the "Withdraw from Term / Cancel Registration" menu item on the "Registration" menu of Student Self Service. After submitting the request, the Office of the Registrar will cancel your registration within two business days. Your student account will be adjusted accordingly.  In-Person: You can complete a "Cancellation of Registration" form at the reception desk in the Office of the Registrar, 1200 W. Harrison, Student Services Building (SSB), no later than 5:00pm, by the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1, first Friday of Summer Session 2 or the second Friday of the 12-week term. The deadline to cancel your registration in-person, and receive a 100% refund, is 5:00pm, on the last day of the add/drop period for the earliest term in which you are registered whether Summer Session 1, Summer Session 2, Full term, or Parts-of-Term A and B .   After Summer Session 1 classes begin:  Summer Session 1 (first four weeks)  After the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1:  To withdraw from your Summer Session 1 courses after the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1, you must submit a Term Withdrawal Request at http://registrar.uic.edu/registration/term-withdrawal . Consult your college for specific withdrawal policies. Visiting students enrolled for Summer Session only through the Summer Session Office should contact the Office of the Registrar at 312-996-8600, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. You cannot withdraw via XE Registration after the first Wednesday of Summer Session 1 if you are enrolled for Summer Session 1 courses.  You can however continue to web-drop Summer Session 2 courses XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) .  After Summer Session 2 classes begin:    Summer Session 2 (eight weeks)   After the first Friday of Summer Session 2:  To withdraw from your Summer Session 2 courses after the first Friday of Summer Session 2, you must submit a Term Withdrawal Request at http://registrar.uic.edu/registration/term-withdrawal . Consult your college for specific withdrawal policies. Visiting students enrolled for Summer Session only through the UIC Summer Session Office  should contact the Office of the Registrar at 312-996-8600, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. You cannot withdraw via XE Registration after the first Friday of Summer Session 2.  After Summer Full Term classes begin:  Summer Full Term (full 12 weeks)  After the second Friday of Summer Full Term:  To withdraw from your Summer Full Term courses after the second Friday of Summer Full Term, you must submit a Term Withdrawal Request at http://registrar.uic.edu/registration/term-withdrawal . Consult your college for specific withdrawal policies. Visiting students enrolled for Summer Session Only through the UIC Summer Session Office  should contact the Office of the Registrar at 312-996-8600, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. You cannot withdraw via XE Registration after the second Friday of Summer Full Term.  After Summer Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week class begin:  Summer Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week Session  After the first Friday of Summer Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week Session:  To withdraw from your Summer  Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week Session courses after the first Friday of Summer Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week Session, you must submit a Term Withdrawal Request at http://registrar.uic.edu/registration/term-withdrawal . Consult your college for specific withdrawal policies. Visiting students enrolled for Summer Session Only through the UIC Summer Session Office  should contact the Office of the Registrar at 312-996-8600, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. You cannot withdraw via XE Registration system (available via my.UIC.edu) after the first Friday of Summer  Part-of-Term 1-Online 8 Week Session.     top of page     Student Health Insurance  Campus Care is a comprehensive student health benefit program offered by the University of Illinois to eligible enrolled students at the Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford campuses. All registered students who have NOT previously waived out of the Student Health Benefits Program are automatically enrolled . For more information visit Campus Care web site .  What you should know about the Campus Care Program:   The University automatically enrolls all Undergraduates, Transfer, Graduate, and Professional students.  There is no enrollment form to complete.  Premiums are assessed to the students account with assessment of tuition and fees for registered hours.  The coverage provides a full array of Health Care Services including:   Physician and Hospital Services Inpatient and Outpatient  Prescription Drugs  Emergency Room Services  Physical Therapy  Home Health  Mental and Substance Services   All services must be provided or preauthorized by a Campus Care Health Center Physician.  Services NOT authorized by a Campus Care Health Center Physician will be the student's financial responsibility.   For complete details of the program including benefits and listing of Health Center Physician locations, visit the Campus Care web site .  Waivers of Campus Care and reinstatement    Contact Campus Care for deadline information to waive health insurance . Students can waive out of Campus Care by submitting an on-line Waiver Form .  Contact Campus Care about waiver policies.  For Spring Semester, 28 days from the first day of classes is the deadline.  For Summer Semester, June 1 is the deadline.  Students who waive out of the program will be asked to provide proof of other health insurance coverage.  Students who already have approved waivers DO NOT need to submit a waiver each term.  Students who have previously waived out of the Campus Care program may reinstate coverage by submitting the on-line Reinstatement Application Form. Contact Campus Care for the deadline that covered Students can enroll or remove qualified dependents by submitting the proper form(s) on-line.    top of page            Office of the Registrar, MC 018   University of Illinois at Chicago  Suite 1200 Student Services Building  1200 West Harrison Street  Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  312-996-4350   Hours of Operation   Monday - Friday, 8:30-5:00pm      UIC Office of the Registrar      Current & Former Students  UIC Faculty & Staff   Contact us!   Registrar Webform  Webmaster  Sitemap         CookieSettings    