https://registrar.uic.edu/student_records/record_confidentiality.html
Confidentiality of Student Records | UIC Office of the Registrar         Transcripts  Registration  Contact us  UIC Home      Search:           Top Navigation   Current Students  Current Students   Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Former Students  Former Students   Calendars  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Faculty & Staff  Faculty & Staff   Classroom Scheduling  Faculty Self-Service  Calendars  Classes  Grades  Registration  Textbook Adoption  Student Records Policy    Other Links...  Other Links... sub-category   Prospective Students  AES Staff         Section navigation   Go to Section...  Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies     Home » Student Records » Confidentiality of Student Records     Confidentiality of Student Records  Release of Information Pertaining to Students  Annually, UIC informs students of the Family Educational Rights
            and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. This Act, with which the University
            intends to comply fully, was designated to protect the privacy of students'
            educational records, to establish the right of students to inspect and
            review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the
            correction of inaccurate or misleading data through informal and formal
            hearings. Students also have the right to file complaints with the Family
            Policy Compliance Office concerning alleged failures by the University
            to comply with the Act.  University policy explains in detail the procedures to be used by the
            institution for compliance with the provisions of the Act. Copies of
            the policy are available in the Office of Student Affairs and the Office
            of Admissions and Records.  Directory Information  Except as otherwise outlined in the policy, the Act prohibits
            access by nonuniversity personnel to information about individual students
            without the student's written authorization, except that which is considered
            public information. UIC hereby designates the following as public or
            "directory information." Such information may be disclosed by the University
            for any purpose, at its discretion.   Name  University Identification Number (UIN).  University e-mail; and permanent city, state, and postal ZIP code.  Class/Level (Graduate, Undergraduate, Professional, Nondegree/Freshman, Sophomore, Junior,       Senior).  College and major field of       study/Concentration/Minor.  Day and month of birth.  Participation in officially recognized       activities and sports.  Weight and height if the       student is an athletic team member.  Dates of       admission/attendance.  Attendance site (campus,       location).  Expected graduation date.  Degrees conferred, with       dates.  Current term hours enrolled       and enrollment status (full-time, part-time, not enrolled, withdrawn and       date of withdrawal).  Awards, honors and       achievements (including distinguished academic performance), with dates.  Eligibility for membership in       honoraries.  For Students appointed as fellows, assistants,  graduate, or undergraduate hourly employees, the title, appointing department,  appointment date, duties and percent time of appointment.  Video and photographic images of   students taken by the University during public events with the exception   of the official UIC identification photograph.   To Examine Your Records , you
            must submit a written request to the appropriate record-keeping office.
            The appropriate office will comply with your request within a reasonable
            amount of time, not to exceed 45 days after receipt of your request.  To Prevent Release of Directory Information ,
            you must submit a request form to the Office of the Registrar
            no later than the tenth day of the semester (fifth day of summer session).
            Such requests for nondisclosure will be honored as long as you are continuously
            enrolled or unless you revoke the request in writing.  Additional Information about the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 ,
            as amended, may be obtained in the college offices, the Office of Student
            Affairs and the Office of Admissions and Records.            Office of the Registrar, MC 018   University of Illinois at Chicago  Suite 1200 Student Services Building  1200 West Harrison Street  Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  312-996-4350   Hours of Operation   Monday - Friday, 8:30-5:00pm      UIC Office of the Registrar      Current & Former Students  UIC Faculty & Staff   Contact us!   Registrar Webform  Webmaster  Sitemap         CookieSettings    