https://registrar.uic.edu/campus_policies/records_policy
Student Records Policy | UIC Office of the Registrar         Transcripts  Registration  Contact us  UIC Home      Search:           Top Navigation   Current Students  Current Students   Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Former Students  Former Students   Calendars  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies    Faculty & Staff  Faculty & Staff   Classroom Scheduling  Faculty Self-Service  Calendars  Classes  Grades  Registration  Textbook Adoption  Student Records Policy    Other Links...  Other Links... sub-category   Prospective Students  AES Staff         Section navigation   Go to Section...  Registration Services  Calendars  Financial Matters  Student Records  Transcripts  Campus Policies      Home » Current Students » Campus Policies » UIC
        Student Records Policy    UIC Student Records Policy  Page Sections:   Guidelines and Procedures Governing Student Records   Purpose  Access to Records  Identification, Description and Location of Records  Disclosure of Information from education records to third parties  Amending an education record  Right to File Complaints  Maintenance/Destruction/Disposal of Records  Definitions     Related Resources:   Confidentiality of Student Records  FERPA - Consent to Release Records   Guidelines and Procedures Governing Student Records  I. PURPOSE   The University of Illinois at
            Chicago maintains individual records and information about Students for
            the purpose of providing educational, vocational, and personal services
            to its Students. It is University policy to comply fully with federal statutes
            and regulations regarding the confidentiality of Student educational records.
            As required by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as
            amended, the following guidelines and procedures are intended to ensure
            the confidentiality of Student Education Records, to establish the right
            of Students to inspect and review their Education Records, to clarify the
            circumstances under which Educational Records may be released to third parties,
            and to establish the appropriate procedures to be followed by Students for
            the correction of inaccurate or misleading data within their Educational
            Records. Notice is given of rights and responsibilities of students under this policy in the Registration Agreement presented to students prior to online registration each semester.  Copies will also be available in the Office of the Vice Chancellor
            for Student Affairs and in the Office of Admissions and Records.  II. ACCESS TO RECORDS  A. Student's Right to Inspect or Review Education Records   Access and Review: UIC Students have the right to physically
                review their own Education Records in the presence of a designated University
                representative. Where necessary and reasonable, an explanation and interpretation
                of the record will be provided by qualified University personnel. Student
                access may include electronic means. To ensure that Students may only have
                access to their own records, a UIC Enterprise ID is assigned and stored in
                the University's Student Information System. This Enterprise ID and a password
                are required for access to the system.  The Student is required to submit
                        all requests for access to his/her records in writing to the appropriate office
                        and will be required to present appropriate identification.  The appropriate office shall comply
                        with the request within a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 45 days
                        after receipt of the request.  Original records may not be removed
                        from any office where they are maintained.    Copies: Where circumstances effectively prevent
                the Student from exercising his/her right to inspect and review the record, the
                University will provide a copy of the records requested. Students may be required to pay a fee for
                copies of their records, including, but not limited to transcripts,
                certification of enrollment, certification of graduation, and enrollment
                letters. A Student may be denied a copy
                of his/her Student record (e.g., transcript, diploma, or certificate) in cases
                where an administrative hold has been placed on that Student's record. The Student may view such records,
                though will not be permitted to obtain a copy of said record until the hold has
                been properly removed.   B. Limitations on Right to Inspect or Review  A Student may not inspect or review the following:   Financial records and information of his/her parent(s).  Confidential
                letters or materials placed in records prior to January 1, 1975, as long as
                they are used only for the purposes for which they were written.  Confidential
                letters or materials placed in records after January 1, 1975 if the Student has
                voluntarily submitted a written waiver, signed by the Student. Such letters and
                statements must be related to the Student's admission to the University,
                application for employment, or receipt of an honor or honorary recognition. If
                the Student has waived the right of inspection, the University will provide the
                Student, upon request, the names of the individuals who provided the letters
                and statements of recommendation. A waiver may be revoked with respect to any
                actions occurring after the revocation. A revocation must be made in writing.  If an Education
                Record contains information about more than one Student, the Student may
                inspect and review or be informed of only the specific information about that
                Student. As such, that record may be
                censored (e.g. crossed-out or blanked-out) to protect information about the other
                Student(s).   III. IDENTIFICATION, DESCRIPTION AND LOCATION OF RECORDS  A Student's Education Records are not maintained in one central location.
            Instead, various departments and units create and maintain files containing Education Records for Students. Although more than one department or unit may maintain a copy of a
            particular record, a Student should direct a request for that record to the
            appropriate department or unit who maintains the file housing
            that record. All University officials
            should refer a request promptly to the appropriate department(s). The following
            should guide the Student in directing his/her request. In addition, a glossary of commonly requested
            records with a listing of the location and custodian of those records is attached
            as Appendix A (pdf).  A. Academic Records    The Office for Admissions and Records (OAR)  OAR maintains the official academic
                    record of a Student's cumulative history at UIC, including the Student's
                    admission, registration, and academic performance. The OAR file includes, but
                    is not limited to the Student's application for admission or readmission to the
                    University along with supporting documentation, transfer credit evaluation, and
                    other data pertinent to the evaluation of the Student's admissibility; the Student's
                    official transcript; certain demographic and biographic information; and petitions
                    for residency and supporting documentation. Please direct your request to the Director of the Office for Admissions
                    and Records.   The College/Unit/Department  The academic college, unit or
                    department in which the Student is enrolled maintains that Student's individual
                    academic records such as course materials, grade issuance/change materials,
                    advisor notes, communications, etc. For information concerning these records,
                    contact the appropriate unit and records custodian listed below:   Dean, College of
                        Architecture and the Arts  Dean, College of
                        Applied Health Sciences  Dean, College of
                        Business Administration  Dean, College of
                        Dentistry  Dean, College of
                        Education  Dean, College of
                        Engineering  Dean, the Graduate
                        College  Dean, Honors College  Dean, College of
                        Liberal Arts & Sciences  Dean, College of
                        Medicine  Dean, College of
                        Nursing  Dean, College of
                        Pharmacy  Dean, Jane Addams
                        College of Social Work  Dean, School of
                        Public Health  Dean, College of
                        Urban Planning & Public Affairs  Director, Office of
                        Continuing Education & Public Service     B. Financial Records     University Student Financial Services and Cashiering Operations (USFSCO)  USFSCO maintains a record of student account transactions,
                    including billing, refund, and payment information;
                    records of collection efforts; and records related to Federal Perkins' loans
                    and University Long-Term Loans (e.g., promissory notes). The records maintained by USFSCO include
                    information from all University of Illinois campuses and sites. Please direct your request to the Executive Director
                    of University Financial Services & Cashiering Operations.    The Office of Student Financial Aid (OFA)  OFA maintains records of Students' applications for
                    financial aid (e.g., scholarships, loans, grants) and any supporting
                    documentation. Please direct your
                    request to the Director of the Office of Student Financial Aid.    C. Student Services Records   The Department of Intercollegiate Athletics (Athletics)  Athletics maintains records
                    relating to Student athletes, including but not limited to the National Letter
                    of Intent, Athletic Scholarships, NCAA required forms for participation,
                    Eligibility and Academic Coursework and Medical information from Athletic
                    Training. For information concerning these records contact Director of
                    Athletics.   The Office for Campus Housing (Campus Housing)  Campus Housing maintains records
                    related to housing applications, assignments, contracts, room changes, room
                    selection process, housing charges, and housing disciplinary incidents. For
                    information concerning these records, contact the Director of Campus Housing.   Campus Union Programs (CUP)  CUP maintains records regarding
                    Student organizations and their officers, and programming committees and their
                    officers. For more information concerning these records contact the Director of
                    Campus Union Programs.   Campus Recreation  Records
                    regarding intramural participation and instructional programs are maintained by
                    Campus Recreation. For information
                    concerning these records contact the Director of Campus Recreation.   Career, Job Placement, and Student Employment Records  The Office of Career Services
                    maintains records for those Students who use its services. This information
                    consists of self-completed resumes, various personal references and academic
                    transcripts furnished by the Student. These items are distributed to potential
                    employers. The Student Employment office maintains records pertinent to Student
                    employment. For information concerning these records, contact the Director of
                    the Office of Career Services or the Coordinator of Student Employment.   Counseling/Testing Records  Records of services
                    rendered in the areas of counseling and testing are maintained by Student
                    Affairs Counseling Services and the Office of Testing Services (a Division of
                    Counseling Services). For more information concerning these records, contact
                    the Director of Counseling Services or the Associate Director for Testing,
                    Counseling Services.   Office of the Dean of Students  The
                    Office of the Dean of Students maintains the following Student records: Student
                    Ombuds files, Student judicial files, and Student legal service files.  For information concerning these records, contact the Dean of Students.   The Office of Disability Services (ODS)  ODS maintains records related to
                    Student accommodations and requests for service. For more information regarding
                    these records, contact the Director of the Office of Disability Services.   The I-card/Photo ID Office  The
                    I-card/Photo ID Office maintains the image and demographic information that is
                    fed from Banner to the I-card system. The individual image is created in the
                    Photo ID office. The image may be provided to the Student upon request for a
                    fee. For information concerning these records, contact the Photo ID
                    Coordinator.   The
                Office of International Services (OIS)  OIS maintains copies of immigration
                    related files as required by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and U.S.
                    Department of State. These files contain a cumulative history of the Student's
                    immigration status, registration, declaration and certification of finances,
                    evidence of sources of financial support and biographic information as required
                    for reporting purposes and the initial I 20 form and DS-2019. For information, contact the Director of the Office of International Services.   Parking Services  Parking Services maintains Student
                    parking applications/renewals, lot access records, payment history, and
                    citation history.  For information regarding these records contact the
                    Director of Campus Parking Services.   Student Health Services (Campus Care)  Campus Care maintains claim status
                    information for all enrolled Students who have Campus Care insurance.For more information concerning these records contact the Director of Campus Care.   The Student Development Services Office  The
                    Student Development Services office maintains records of Students who request
                    and receive Veterans Affairs benefits, Orientation Program reservations,
                    charges and fee waivers, and selection process materials for specific Student
                    leader volunteer and employment positions. For information concerning these records, contact the Director of Student Development Services.    D. Academic Support Services   Academic Center for Excellence (ACE)  ACE
                    maintains the following Student records: Students grades for ACE ASP Courses,
                    ACE Advisee records (name, UIN, Student's semester grades, and number of visits
                    per semester). For more information
                    please contact the Associate Director of Academic Center for Excellence.   African American Academic Network (AAAN)  AAAN maintains the following
                    information for Students who seek or qualify for services from AAAN: UIC
                    application, H.S. transcripts, Demographic information, and Student contact
                    sheet for every visit (e.g. nature of the visit--social, financial, academic or
                    tutorial). Files are maintained as long
                    as the Students are registered (active). Inactive flies are held for only 2
                    years, and then shredded. For
                    information concerning these records, contact the Director of AAAN Program.   Academic Computing and Communication Center (ACCC)  ACCC
                    maintains the following records: phonebook information (current/historical);
                    Files/email/web pages in accounts, and also Blackboard work. For more information concerning these records,
                    contact the Director of ACCC.   The Office of School Relations -Project CHANCE  The Office of School Relations possesses
                    Student records regarding Project CHANCE application information and instructional
                    programs that are administered through the CHANCE program.  For more
                    information regarding these records, please contact the Director of Project
                    CHANCE.   Native American Support Program  The Native American
                    Support Program maintains copies of Student records related to academic
                    progress, financial aid, tribal scholarships and contact logs documenting
                    Student/staff interactions for Students who seek or qualify for services of the
                    Program. For more information concerning these records, contact the Director of
                    the Native American Support Program.   Latin American
                Recruitment and Educational Services Program (LARES)  LARES
                    maintains the following: admission files and academic advising files for
                    Students who seek or qualify for services from LARES. For information concerning these records,
                    contact the Associate Director of the LARES Program.   Special Scholarship Programs  The Office of Special Scholarship
                    Programs maintains nationally competitive scholarship applications from past
                    award recipients. For more information concerning these records contact
                    the Director of the Office of Special Scholarship Programs.   TRIO Programs  The Student records available
                    in the Educational Opportunity Outreach Programs (TRIO) offices include records
                    that determine Student eligibility for programs and services provided, and
                    documentation of Student academic participation. For information concerning
                    these records, contact the Director of Educational Opportunity Outreach Programs
                    (TRIO).   Urban Health Program  The Urban Health Program
                    maintains initial Urban Health Program applications and a list of
                    applicants. For more information
                    concerning these records, contact the Director of Urban Health Program.    IV. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION FROM EDUCATION RECORDS TO THIRD PARTIES  A. Disclosure not requiring prior consent**  Except in the case of Directory Information,
            the University (e.g., appropriate record custodian) may disclose personally
            identifiable information from a Student's Education Record, without the consent
            specified above, only if the disclosure meets one or more of the
            following conditions:    The disclosure is to University officials who have a legitimate
                    educational interest in the records . The sufficiency of the need will be
                    determined on a case-by-case basis by the head of the unit from which the
                    records are sought. Student information supplied, in any format or medium, to
                    any University of Illinois at Chicago personnel or units is provided on the
                    basis that it is needed to permit their necessary functioning.   The University official has a legitimate
                        educational interest if the official is performing a task that is specified
                        in his/her position description or contract agreement; performing a task
                        related to a Student's education (e.g., providing academic or personal advice
                        and counsel to Students, creating and/or maintaining Educational Records,
                        supervising and/or certifying Student educational progress for University or
                        government purposes); performing a task related to the discipline of a Student;
                        providing a service or benefit relating to the Student or Student's family
                        (e.g., health care, counseling, job placement, financial aid); or maintaining
                        the safety and security of the campus.  University personnel may include a person employed by the University in an
                        administrative, academic, research or support position, including health or
                        medical staff (e.g. members of the faculty, academic advisors, administrative
                        and support staff, and Student employees); a person elected to the Board of
                        Trustees; a person employed by or under contract with the University to perform
                        a special task (e.g., an attorney or auditor); a person employed by the
                        University law enforcement unit; or a Student serving on an official committee
                        (e.g., disciplinary or grievance committee), or who is assisting another school
                        official in performing his/her tasks.    The disclosure is to officials of other schools, colleges or universities in which the Student
                seeks or intends to enroll or where the Student is already in attendance if
                the Student is enrolled in or receives services from the other institution. A
                copy of any information sent will be provided to the Student upon request.  The disclosure is to authorized representatives of the Comptroller General of the United
                States, The Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of the U.S.
                Department of Education, or to State and local educational authorities in
                connection with an audit or evaluation of Federal or State supported education
                programs, or for the enforcement of or compliance with Federal legal
                requirements which relate to those programs. Unless specifically authorized by Federal law, information that is
                collected hereunder must be protected in a manner that does not permit personal
                identification by anyone except the officials referred to above and must be
                destroyed when no longer needed for the purposes for which it was provided.  The disclosure is in connection with financial aid for which the Student has applied or
                received , if the information is needed to determine eligibility for the
                aid, to determine the amount of the aid, to determine the conditions for the
                aid, or to enforce the terms and conditions of the aid.  The disclosure is to State and local officials or authorities to whom this information is
                specifically allowed to be reported or disclosed pursuant to State statute adopted before November 19, 1974, if the allowed reporting or disclosure
                concerns the juvenile justice system and the system's ability to effectively
                serve the Student whose records are released; or adopted after November 19,
                1974 if reporting or disclosure allowed by the statute concerns the juvenile
                justice system and the system's ability to effectively serve, prior to
                adjudication, the Student whose records are released and only so long as the
                officials to whom the records are disclosed certify, in writing, to the
                University that the information will not be disclosed to any other party,
                except as provided under state law, without the prior written consent of the Student.  The disclosure is to organizations conducting studies for, or on behalf of, educational
                agencies or institutions to develop, validate, or administer predictive tests,
                administer Student aid programs, or improve instruction , but only if the
                study is conducted in a manner that does not permit personal identification of
                parents and Students by individuals other than representatives from the
                organization and the information is destroyed when no longer needed for the
                purposes for which the study was conducted.  The disclosure is to accrediting organizations to carry out their accrediting
                function, with the guarantee that the identity of the Student will be protected.  The disclosure is to a Parent of a Student (1) who is defined
                as a dependent under Section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, (for
                purposes of this policy, the assumption, unless individually certified to the
                contrary under the criteria above, will be that University Students are not
                dependents within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code); or (2) is in regard to the Student's
                    violation of any federal, state, or local law, or of any rule or policy of the
                    institution, governing the use or possession of alcohol or a controlled
                    substance if the University has determined that the Student has committed a
                disciplinary violation with respect to the use or possession and the Student is
                under the age of 21 at the time of the disclosure to the parent.  The disclosure is to comply with a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena ,
                including an IRS summons. The sufficiency of the order or subpoena will be
                determined by University Legal Counsel. The University will make a reasonable
                effort to notify the Student in advance of the existence of the order/subpoena
                and of its intent to comply, unless the disclosure is in compliance with; (i) A
                Federal grand jury subpoena and the court has ordered that the existence or the
                contents of the subpoena or the information furnished in response to the
                subpoena not be disclosed; or (ii) Any other subpoena issued for a law
                enforcement purpose and the court or other issuing agency has ordered that the
                existence or contents of the subpoena or the information furnished in response
                to the subpoena not be disclosed. If the University initiates legal
                    action against a Student or parent, it may disclose the Student's Education
                    Records that are relevant to the action to the court without a court order or
                    subpoena. If a parent or Student initiates legal action against the University,
                    the University may disclose to the court, without a court order or subpoena,
                    the Student's Education Records that are relevant for the University to defend
                    itself.   The disclosure is in connection with a health or safety emergency , if knowledge of
                such information is necessary to protect the health or safety of a Student or
                other individuals.  The disclosure is to faculty and other officials of the University or other schools
                concerning the disciplinary action taken against the Student for conduct
                that posed a significant risk to the safety or wellbeing of that Student, other
                Students, or other members of the school community, where the University has
                determined that said individuals have a legitimate educational interest in the
                behavior of the Student.  The disclosure
                consists of information the University has designated as "directory
                information" (see section IV.C. below).  The disclosure is to a victim of an alleged perpetrator of a
                crime of violence (e.g., actual or attempted arson, assault, burglary,
                criminal homicide, vandalism of property, kidnapping/abduction, robbery, and
                forcible sex offenses) or nonforcible
                    sex offense , but limited to the final results of a disciplinary hearing
                regardless of the outcome.  The disclosure is to any third party where the Student has
                been found to be an alleged perpetrator of a crime of violence or nonforcible
                sex offense and, a disciplinary proceeding took place on or after
                October 7, 1998 and, with respect to the alleged crime or offense, the Student
                has been found to have committed a violation of the University's rules or
                policies. The University will not
                disclose the name of any other Student (victim or witness) without the prior
                written consent of the other Student(s).  The disclosure is to the U.S. Attorney General or to his/her designee— without the consent or knowledge of the Student
                or parent-- in response to an ex
                    parte order in connection with the investigation or prosecution of
                terrorism crimes specified in section 2332b(g)(5)(B) and 2331 of title 18,
                U.S. Code. The University is not
                required to record a disclosure of information from a Student's educational
                record when the University makes that disclosure pursuant to said ex parte order.  The disclosure is to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for Education Records of international
                Students attending the University under an F-1, M-1 or J-1 visa. ** All
                    recipients of Student records are advised that they are obligated to respect
                    the confidentiality of Student information disclosed to them and must maintain
                    that information in accordance with federal law and with these guidelines.    B. Disclosure Requiring Prior Consent  Except as listed in “A” above, all requests for Student Information other than directory information must be accompanied by the consent of the Student. Consent can be provided using the standard UIC consent to release records (FERPA) request form . However, Students should check with the relevant custodian of records to determine whether that office/department/unit has a specific consent form that they require.   Essential Elements of Consent: The online consent required by this section must be approved by the Student, specify the records to be disclosed, and identify the party or class of parties to whom the disclosure may be made. See online consent to release records (FERPA) request form .  Right to Copy of Records Disclosed: When disclosure is made pursuant to this section, the appropriate record-keeping office will, upon written request, provide the Student with a copy of the records that were disclosed.  Subsequent Disclosure: The University will disclose personally identifiable information from the Education Records of a Student only on the conditions that the party to whom the disclosure is made (1) will not further disclose the information without the Student's prior written consent, except in the disclosure of directory information and (2) will only use the information for the purposes for which the disclosure was made. The University will, except for the disclosure of directory information, inform the party to whom disclosure is made of the obligation to obtain the Student's consent before further disclosure to other parties.   C. Disclosure of Directory Information   General Policy: Directory Information pertaining to individual Students
                may be released at the discretion of the University. The definition of Directory
                Information will be provided in the University publication of course offerings
                and registration policies or other designated publications and is defined in
                section VII.D. below. All recipients of Student information within the
                University are required to comply with this policy. Directory information or
                lists of Student information will never be knowingly provided to any requesting
                party for commercial or political purposes unless required by law or legal
                process. If a Student directory is published, it will be equally available to
                all.  Opting Out of
                Disclosure: Each academic term,
                enrolled Students will be given the opportunity to notify the University in
                writing that they do not want their Directory Information disclosed without
                their prior written consent. Such requests must be submitted on the appropriate
                University form to the Office of Registration and Records no later than the
                tenth day of the semester (fifth day of Summer Session 2). Such requests for
                nondisclosure will be honored until the Student revokes the request in writing.   D. Recordkeeping of Disclosures   General Policy: The
                University shall maintain a record of each request for access to and each
                disclosure of personally identifiable information from the Education Records of
                each Student. The record of disclosure shall be maintained with the Education Record
                as long as the records are maintained. The record of disclosure shall include:  The parties who have
                        requested or received personally identifiable information; and, where relevant,  The legitimate educational
                        interests (see section IV.A.1. above) the parties had in requesting or
                        obtaining the information.     Exceptions: Records of disclosure are not required to be
                kept in the record of a Student under the following circumstances:  when the request was from, or the disclosure was to, the Student himself/herself, University personnel or school officials as defined in IV.A.1. above;  The requesting party has a written consent from the Student;  The requesting party is seeking Directory Information;  The disclosure is in accordance with IV.A.10(i) or (ii) above; or  The disclosure is in accordance with Section IV(A)(16) above.     V. AMENDING AN EDUCATION RECORD  A. Grounds: A Student has the right to request an amendment
            to his/her Education Record if he/she believes that it is inaccurate, misleading,
            or otherwise in violation of his/her privacy rights.  B. Procedure   Request: To request an amendment to the Education
                Record, the Student shall, within sixty (60) days after inspecting and
                reviewing the record in question for the first time, file with the University
                office responsible for maintaining such records (See Section III. above), a
                written request for amendment stating the grounds for that amendment.  Review: Within thirty (30) days following
                receipt of such request, the unit head, or an authorized designee, shall review
                the record in question with the Student.  Response: The unit head/designee shall either
                amend the record as requested or notify the Student of the right to a hearing
                at which the Student and other persons directly involved in the establishment
                of the record will have an opportunity to present evidence to support or refute
                the contention that the subject record is inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in
                violation of the Student's privacy or other rights. The right-to-hearing notice shall be sent to
                the Student via certified mail, return receipt requested, by messenger, or by
                some other means through which the date of receipt may be determined.   C. Hearing   Request for Hearing: If the Student wishes to exercise his/her
                right to the hearing, he/she shall, within ten (10) days following receipt of right-to-hearing
                notice, submit to the unit head a written request for a hearing.  Notice of Hearing: The Student will be
                given written notice sent to his/her last known address of the time and place
                of such hearing not less than ten (10) days in advance.  Hearing Attendees: The hearing will be conducted by a
                University representative who does not have a direct interest in the outcome.
                The Student shall have the right to attend the hearing; to be accompanied by
                one or more individuals of his/her choice at his/her own expense, including an
                attorney; to present evidence; and to call witnesses in his/her behalf. If the Student
                chooses to have an attorney present, he/she must notify the hearing officer no
                later than three (3) days prior to the hearing. The role of an attorney in the hearing process is limited to advising
                his/her client and, in no event, shall he/she have a speaking part in the
                proceedings.  Notice of Hearing Outcome: The Student shall be notified in writing of
                the decision within ten (10) days following the close of the hearing. Such
                decision is final.  Decision: The decision shall be based solely on the evidence
                presented at the hearing and shall include a summary of the evidence and
                reasons for the decision. If, as a result of the hearing, the Hearing Officer
                decides that the record is inaccurate, misleading or otherwise in violation of
                the privacy rights of the Student, he/she shall amend the record
                accordingly. If, on the other hand, the
                Hearing Officer determines that the record is not inaccurate, misleading or
                otherwise in violation of the Student's privacy rights, he/she will inform the Student
                of the right to place a statement in the record commenting on the contested
                information and/or stating why s/he disagrees with the decision of the University. That statement will be maintained with the
                contested part of the record for as long as the record is maintained and will
                be disclosed whenever the part of the record to which it relates is disclosed.  Exception: A hearing may not be requested by a Student to contest the
                assignment of a grade; however, a hearing may be requested to contest whether
                or not the assigned grade was recorded accurately in the Education Record of
                the Student. Note that according to UIC
                policy, changes/correction to final grades are permitted only up to two (2)
                years after recording the final grade in a student's academic record so long as
                the course instructor, department chair/head, and college office approve of the
                change/correction. No grade
                change/corrections are allowed after the two-year time limitation. Colleges, however, are permitted to adopt a
                more restrictive policy. As such,
                Students should check with their colleges concerning the time limit policy.   VI. RIGHT TO FILE COMPLAINTS  A. If a Student believes that his/her
            rights have been violated, he/she should first file a complaint with the head
            of the unit which maintains the records in question.  B. If, after exhausting all internal
            remedies available within the University, the Student still contends that
            his/her rights have been violated, written complaints can be filed with: Family
                Policy Compliance Office U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue,
                S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202-4605   VII. Maintenance/Destruction/Disposal of Records  A. Persons in charge of Education Records
            should ensure that only pertinent items are retained in those records.  B. The University may dispose of Education
            Records when they are no longer necessary, in accordance with applicable federal
            and state laws. However, if under the terms of this policy, a Student has
            requested access to the record or has formally challenged the record, the
            record shall not be destroyed until access has been granted or until a decision
            has been rendered.  VIII. DEFINITIONS  A. Student: A person who is or has been in attendance
            at the University of Illinois at Chicago, in a course of study either on campus
            or off campus, and for whom the University maintains Education Records or
            personally identifiable information.   "Attendance" includes, but is not limited to, attendance in person, online or by
                correspondence. It includes the period during which a person is working under a
                work-study program.  Denied Applicants: Persons who applied for admission but were
                not accepted are not considered "Students" and have no rights under this
                policy. A person who is denied admission to a particular college or program of
                study is not entitled to have access to materials related to the denied
                application, even if the individual is already enrolled or subsequently enrolls
                in another program of study at the University.   B. Education Records: Those records (in
            handwriting, print, tape, film, diskette, or other medium, including those
            that are maintained electronically) that are directly related to a Student
            and are maintained by the University of Illinois at Chicago or any subunit
            thereof or by any party acting for the University. The term does not include:   Records that are kept in the sole
                possession of the maker, are used only as a personal memory aid, and are not
                accessible or revealed to any other person except a temporary substitute for
                the maker of the records.  Records created and maintained by
                the UIC Police or other law enforcement unit for law enforcement purposes.  Employment records, made and maintained
                in the normal course of business, that relate exclusively to an individual in
                his/her capacity as an employee and are not available for use for any other
                purpose, so long as they are maintained separately from any Education Record.
                Employment records relating to individuals in attendance at UIC who are
                employed as a result of their status as a Student are considered Education
                Records.  Records made or maintained by a
                physician, psychiatrist, psychologist or other recognized professional or
                paraprofessional that are used in
                connection with treatment of the Student and are disclosed only to individuals
                providing the treatment, provided, however, that these records can be reviewed
                by a physician or other appropriate professional of the Student's choice. For
                the purpose of this policy "treatment" does not include remedial
                educational activities or activities that are part of the University's program
                of instruction.  Records that only contain information
                about a person after that person is no longer a Student at the University of
                Illinois at Chicago, such as alumni files.   C: Personally Identifiable Information: The term "Personally identifiable information"
            includes, but is not limited to:   The name of a Student, the Student's
                parent(s), the Student's spouse or other family member;  The
                address of the Student or the Student's family;  A
                personal identifier such as the Student's social security number or Student ID
                number;  A list of personal characteristics
                which would make the Student's identity easily traceable;  Other
                information that would make the Student's identity easily traceable.   D. Directory Information: Directory Information includes that
            information contained in the Education Record of a Student which would not
            generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. The University of Illinois at Chicago defines
            the following as directory information:   Name  University Identification Number (UIN)  University e-mail; and permanent       city, state, and postal ZIP code.  Class/Level (Graduate,       Undergraduate, Professional, Nondegree; Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior).  College and Major field of       study/Concentration/Minor.  Day and month of birth.  Participation in officially       recognized activities and sports.  Weight and height if the       Student is an athletic team member.  Dates of       admission/attendance. (this means the period of time during which a       Student attends or attended UIC and does not include specific daily       records of a Student's attendance in classes at UIC).  Attendance site       (campus/location).  Expected graduation date.  Degrees conferred, with       dates.  Current term hours enrolled       and enrollment status (full-time, part-time, not enrolled, withdrawn and       date of withdrawal).  Awards, honors and       achievements (including distinguished academic performance), with dates.  Eligibility for membership in       honoraries.  For Students appointed as fellows, assistants,  graduate, or undergraduate hourly employees, the title, appointing department,  appointment date, duties and percent time of appointment.  Video and photographic images of students taken by the University during public events with the exception of the official UIC identification photograph.   E. Disclosure: To permit access to or the release, transfer,
            or other communication of Education Records, or the personally identifiable
            information contained in those records, to any party, by any means, including
            oral, written or electronic means.  F. Disciplinary action or proceeding: The investigation, adjudication, or imposition
            of sanctions by an educational agency or institution with respect to an infraction
            or violation of the internal rules of conduct applicable to Students of the
            agency or institution.  G. Parent: Includes a natural parent, a guardian, or an
            individual acting as a parent in the absence of a parent or guardian of a
            Student. All rights that are afforded
            to a Parent herein, will be afforded to either Parent, unless the University
            has been provided with a court order, state statute or legally binding document
            relating to such matters as divorce, separation, or custody that specifically
            revokes these rights.  H. Dependent: A Student who qualifies as a dependent child
            for Federal Income Tax Purposes, in accordance with Section 152 of the Internal
            Revenue Service Regulations.  [1] Proof of that dependency status shall be required.  [1] According to IRS Publication 501, a Student would be
            considered a "dependent" for purposes of
            claiming an exemption if he/she meets the following 5 criteria: (1) He/she either (a) lived with the
            taxpayer for the entire year as a member
            of the household, or (b) is related to the taxpayer in one of the ways listed
            in the regulations
            (e.g., child, grandchild, stepchild, etc.); (2) He/she
            is a U.S. citizen or resident, or a resident of Canada or Mexico, for some part
            of the calendar year in which the relevant tax year begins (there is an
            exception for certain adopted children); (3) He/she did not file a joint return with the taxpayer; (4) He/she had a gross income below that of
            the amount set by the IRS for the relevant calendar year (e.g. $3,100 for 2004)
            OR he/she is the child of the taxpayer and is either (a) under age 19 at the
            end of the year, or (b) a Student under age 24 at the end of the year.); and
            (5) The taxpayer provides
            more than half of the Student's total support during the calendar (there are
            special rules that apply in the following two situations: (a) two or more persons provide support, but
            no one person provides more than half of a person's total support; or (b) the
            person supported is the child of divorced or separated parents. ) See IRS Publication 501 for further
            information.  Effective 2/2/1994; Updated 11/2/2001; Revised  and updated 1/17/2006; Updated 8/28/2009; Updated 1/4/2013; Updated 11/18/2016            Office of the Registrar, MC 018   University of Illinois at Chicago  Suite 1200 Student Services Building  1200 West Harrison Street  Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161  312-996-4350   Hours of Operation   Monday - Friday, 8:30-5:00pm      UIC Office of the Registrar      Current & Former Students  UIC Faculty & Staff   Contact us!   Registrar Webform  Webmaster  Sitemap         CookieSettings    