https://cas.uic.edu/hr/careersinstudentaffairs.shtml
Campus Auxiliary Services - Human Resources  Skip to Main Content                Student Affairs Human Resources                —  —  —   Home     About   Submit Ticket   Resources   Hiring  Student Hiring  Extra-Help Hiring  Civil Service Hiring  Academic Professional Hiring  Employee Handbook  Employment Verification  Ticketing System Manual  Employee Resources    Units  Contact    asd                  Home  About Us         CAREERS IN STUDENT AFFAIRS MONTH   Dear Student Affairs Colleagues: October is Careers in Student Affairs Month (CSAM) ! UIC Student Affairs is promoting the month by sponsoring various activities and outreach. NASPA-Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education , a professional association focused on the advancement, health, and sustainability of the student affairs profession sponsors the month as "an opportunity to celebrate, grow, and discover. CSAM is dedicated to the celebration of a career in student affairs, education and awareness in the profession, and engagement with professional associations and peers in the field." Get involved by participating in CSAM activities or encourage other colleagues and students to explore this career field.     UPCOMING CSAM ACTIVITIES FOR STAFF   "Ask Me" Student Affairs Buttons Wear an "Ask Me About My Job" button to promote a conversation about career
     options.   Making the Leap: Career Transitions within Student Affairs Tuesday, October 24th 3:00PM, SSB - Conference Room C  Learn from mid and senior level Student Affairs Professionals on how they were able to
     make dynamic transitions to and from different work areas within the field such as
     Residence Life, Facilities Management, Student Involvement, and others. To register,
        click HERE .  Join the NASPA Dungy Leadership Institute - UIC Host Team  As part of the NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Programs (NUFP), in Summer 2018 UIC
     will host the Dungy Leadership Institute (DLI) on campus. DLI provides an in-depth
     leadership development experience and prepares Fellows for graduate work in student
     affairs/higher education. If you are interested in helping plan and coordinate the 2018
     DLI, please email studentaffairs@uic.edu   Free CSAM Webcasts  During Careers in Student Affairs Month, NASPA will be sponsoring nine unique
     educational webinars geared towards different professional levels of student affairs
     administrators. For calendar and to register, click HERE .      UPCOMING CSAM ACTIVITIES FOR STUDENTS   NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Program (NUFP) By mentoring students from traditionally underrepresented and historically
     disenfranchised populations, this semi-structured program diversifies and broadens the
     pipeline of our profession. Students and mentors apply as a pair. Fellows have
     opportunities for scholarships, on-campus mentorship, and professional development
     events. For more informaton and to apply online by October 13th, click HERE .       Follow us @UICLife on                About Us  Contact Us  CAS Units                     Student Affairs Human Resources  STUDENT CENTER EAST - SCE Tower 750 S. Halsted St.,
		Room 702 Chicago, IL 60607  Phone: 312-355-3350  Fax: 312-355-3361    QUICK LINKS   Student Hiring  Extra Help Hiring  Civil Service Hiring  Academic Professional Hiring   Feedback - Form     OVCSA - UIC - Webmaster - Student Affairs Technology     © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois| Privacy Statement     