https://today.uic.edu/uic-joins-registry-of-covid-19-frontline-care-providers-preventive-drug-trial
UIC joins registry of COVID-19 frontline care providers, preventive drug trial | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC joins registry of COVID-19 frontline care providers, preventive drug trial  April 30, 2020   Health care workers at the University of Illinois
Hospital and Health Sciences System, or UI Health, are now eligible to
participate in a national registry of clinicians working on the frontlines of
the COVID-19 pandemic.  UI Health is part of the University of Illinois at Chicago, which is among the first institutions in the nation to participate in the Healthcare Worker Exposure Response and Outcomes Registry.  The HERO Registry seeks to engage health care workers, understand their experiences and track their health outcomes related to the pandemic — from COVID-19 infection to stress and burnout. Participant experiences and health outcomes will be tracked via surveys and opportunities, to participate in clinical trials.  As part of the registry, health care workers at UI Health also will have the opportunity to participate in future COVID-19 clinical trials, such as an upcoming study of hydroxychloroquine’s effectiveness in preventing coronavirus infections in health care workers. This study , the first for the HERO Registry, will enroll approximately 15,000 health care workers from participating institutions in the clinical trial to see if hydroxychloroquine performs better than placebo at preventing COVID-19.  Dr. Susan Bleasdale  “This is a great opportunity for our health care workers to share their experiences and the challenges they face as frontline care providers,” said UIC’s Dr. Susan Bleasdale, associate professor of clinical medicine at the College of Medicine, medical director of infection prevention at UI Health and principal investigator of the HERO hydroxychloroquine study at UIC. “We need to study what is happening among health care providers with the same dedication we study what is happening to patients.  “This information is vital to understanding what
works and what doesn’t work as we start thinking through the best ways to protect
health care workers, emerge from this crisis and learn from it,” said
Bleasdale, who is an infectious disease expert.  Bleasdale said that documenting the experiences of health
care providers in real-time during the COVID-19 pandemic can provide invaluable
information to public health departments, hospitals and infectious disease
experts on how to prepare for future outbreaks or a second wave of the COVID-19
pandemic.  The hydroxychloroquine study is expected to begin
enrolling health care workers through the HERO registry on May 4.  The HERO research program leverages PCORnet , the National Patient-Centered Clinical Research Network, and is funded by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute.  More information about the HERO Registry, which is led by Duke University, is available online .     Contact   Jacqueline Carey 312-996-8277  jmcarey@uic.edu  twitter.com/JCareyUIC       Categories   Coronavirus , Health Sciences Colleges , Research , UI Hospital   Topics clinical trials , coronavirus , COVID-19 , novel , research          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     