https://www.ois.uic.edu/cms/One.aspx?portalId=1581&pageId=950612
Incoming Exchange Students - UICOIS                                        skip to main content MENU    Home About OIS   Executive Director's Welcome Our Population Staff Directory Hours and Location Emergency Information Spotlight on Scholars   Students   Prospective Students   General Information Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Obtaining an Initial I-20/DS-2019 Declaration and Certification of Finances (DCF) Estimated Expenses Dependents   Admitted Students   Transferring to UIC Travel & Visas Pre-Arrival Housing Check-In International Student Orientation   Current Students   Forms Academics F-1 Student Employment J-1 Student Employment Travel Replacement of Documents Address Updates Change of Status Departure Extension Scholarships Peoria Rockford   Incoming Exchange Students Fulbright Foreign Student and Scholar (Non U.S. Citizens)   Faculty, Staff, and Scholars   Travel & Visas J (Exchange Visitor) Information   Categories Prospective Funding Requirements Insurance Maintaining Status Transfers Dependents/J-2 Work Authorization   H (Specialty Occupation Worker)   Pre-Arrival Maintaining Status   O-1 (Individuals of Extraordinary Ability) TN (Professionals Under NAFTA) E-3 (Australian Specialty Occupation Workers) Other Visa Statuses at UIC Pending LPR Forms Fulbright Foreign Student and Scholars (Non-U.S. Citizens)   Visitors   B-1/B-2 WB/WT   Departments   Use of Attorneys Policy Guide to Hiring   Quick Guide to Hiring Credential Evaluations TN   Permanent Residency OBFS Forms   Programs   Trade Winds First Friends   First Friends Training Guide   Global Ambassadors Employment Workshops and Events International Education Week International Student Career Week Thanksgiving Dinner Pumpkin Farm Trip Other Events   Life in Illinois   Chicago Peoria Rockford   Alumni Resources   Driver's License Cell Phone Social Security Number Transportation Money/Banking Housing Health Insurance Important Links   News   OIS NEWS - 3/17/2020 OIS NEWS – 3/09/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/25/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/19/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/11/2020 OIS NEWS - 2/06/2020 OIS NEWS - 1/24/2020 OIS NEWS - 1/14/2020 OIS NEWS – 12/19/2019 OIS NEWS – 12/11/2019 OIS NEWS – 7/11/2019 OIS NEWS – 6/26/2019 OIS News - 5/24/2019 OIS NEWS – 3/1/2019 OIS NEWS – 2/19/2019 OIS NEWS – 12/13/2018 OIS News - 10/4/2018 OIS News - 10/1/2018 OIS News - 5/2/2018 OIS News - 5/1/2018 OIS News - 2/22/2018 OIS NEWS - 10/02/2017 OIS NEWS - 02/28/2017 OIS NEWS - 05/24/2017 Coronavirus/COVID-19 Updates for the UIC International Community OIS NEWS - 5/08/2020        Home About OIS Executive Director's Welcome Our Population Staff Directory Hours and Location Emergency Information Spotlight on Scholars Students Prospective Students General Information Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Obtaining an Initial I-20/DS-2019 Declaration and Certification of Finances (DCF) Estimated Expenses Dependents Admitted Students Transferring to UIC Travel & Visas Pre-Arrival Housing Check-In International Student Orientation Current Students Forms Academics F-1 Student Employment J-1 Student Employment Travel Replacement of Documents Address Updates Change of Status Departure Extension Scholarships Peoria Rockford Incoming Exchange Students Fulbright Foreign Student and Scholar (Non U.S. Citizens) Faculty, Staff, and Scholars Travel & Visas J (Exchange Visitor) Information Categories Prospective Funding Requirements Insurance Maintaining Status Transfers Dependents/J-2 Work Authorization H (Specialty Occupation Worker) Pre-Arrival Maintaining Status O-1 (Individuals of Extraordinary Ability) TN (Professionals Under NAFTA) E-3 (Australian Specialty Occupation Workers) Other Visa Statuses at UIC Pending LPR Forms Fulbright Foreign Student and Scholars (Non-U.S. Citizens) Visitors B-1/B-2 WB/WT Departments Use of Attorneys Policy Guide to Hiring Quick Guide to Hiring Credential Evaluations TN Permanent Residency OBFS Forms Programs Trade Winds First Friends First Friends Training Guide Global Ambassadors Employment Workshops and Events International Education Week International Student Career Week Thanksgiving Dinner Pumpkin Farm Trip Other Events Life in Illinois Chicago Peoria Rockford Alumni Resources Driver's License Cell Phone Social Security Number Transportation Money/Banking Housing Health Insurance Important Links News OIS NEWS - 3/17/2020 OIS NEWS – 3/09/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/25/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/19/2020 OIS NEWS – 2/11/2020 OIS NEWS - 2/06/2020 OIS NEWS - 1/24/2020 OIS NEWS - 1/14/2020 OIS NEWS – 12/19/2019 OIS NEWS – 12/11/2019 OIS NEWS – 7/11/2019 OIS NEWS – 6/26/2019 OIS News - 5/24/2019 OIS NEWS – 3/1/2019 OIS NEWS – 2/19/2019 OIS NEWS – 12/13/2018 OIS News - 10/4/2018 OIS News - 10/1/2018 OIS News - 5/2/2018 OIS News - 5/1/2018 OIS News - 2/22/2018 OIS NEWS - 10/02/2017 OIS NEWS - 02/28/2017 OIS NEWS - 05/24/2017 Coronavirus/COVID-19 Updates for the UIC International Community OIS NEWS - 5/08/2020 Incoming Exchange Students The University of Illinois at Chicago has established exchange partnerships with a number of universities around the world. Exchange programs give UIC students the chance to study at a university outside the United States and, in return, give a student at a partner university a chance to study at UIC. The information provided below is intended for incoming exchange students, or students at a partner university who would like to study at UIC. Outgoing exchange students, or UIC students who would like to study at a partner university outside the U.S. should consult the UIC Study Abroad Office website.      Application Process  Academics  Financial  Housing  Health Insurance  Orientation  Maintaining Status  Getting Involved     Application Process   The application process for
incoming exchange students is a collaborative effort. Various UIC units are
involved including the Office of International Services, Academic
Departments, and UIC Admission. General questions about the application
process, however, can be directed to the Office of International Services at oisexchange@uic.edu .       Nomination : To begin the
    application process, an authorized coordinator at the home institution
    must nominate the interested student(s) for the UIC Exchange Program through a nomination form . The coordinator should download and complete the fillable pdf form, sign [hard or digital signatures are acceptable], and return by email attachment to oisexchange@uic.edu with 'Exchange Nomination' in the subject line. UIC does NOT accept self-nominations for exchange.  Application : The Office of International
    Services will provide the home institution coordinator and
    student with the UIC Exchange Program Incoming Exchange Nomination &
    Application Directions. This document will explain the application process
    in detail.  Admission : After the
    student submits a completed application to the Office of International
    Services, it is forwarded to the relevant academic department for
    consideration. If the academic department agrees to host the student, UIC
    Admissions will conduct a final review of the application, and, if
    approved, issue the official admission letter.  Deadlines : Nominations and
    applications must be received by the following deadlines to be considered
    for the corresponding study terms. Applications received by the Early
    Action Deadline will receive advanced notification of admission and
    priority consideration for on-campus housing, course selection, and
    immigration document processing.       Study Term    Nomination Deadline    Early Action
            Application Deadline    Final Application
            Deadline      Fall Semester  August - December    February 1    March 1    May 15      Spring Semester  January - May    June 1    July 1    Oct 1      Summer Session I  May-June    November 1    December 1    February 1      Summer Session II  June - August     November 1    December 1    February 1         Immigration & Visa Requirements :
    After admission to the UIC Exchange Program, students must submit
    documentation so that OIS can issue a Form DS-2019 or Certificate of
    Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. The DS-2019 allows the student to
    apply for a J-1 visa at their nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate.
    Prospective exchange students can
    read more about the OIS Documents and how to submit them on the
    OIS website. Required evidence of funding amounts for exchange students is
    listed in the financial section of this page.      Academics   Exchange students at UIC study
alongside regular UIC students in lectures, classes, discussion groups, labs
and studios. The language of instruction is English and regular attendance and
active participation is expected by the faculty.    Length of program : The
    academic calendar at UIC is based on semesters. The fall semester runs
    from August to December, the spring semester runs from January to May. In
    addition, there are two summer sessions, summer session I which runs from
    May to June and summer session II which runs from June to August. Exchange
    students may apply for one or two semesters/sessions.  Learning Agreement : Prospective
    exchange students should outline their intended field of study and a list
    of desired courses in the Learning Agreement which is included in their
    application to the UIC Exchange Program. This allows the Office of
    International Services to forward the application to the appropriate
    academic department for review. Students and their home institution
    coordinators can refer to the UIC
    course catalog for a list of classes generally offered at UIC.  Please note that not all courses
    listed in the UIC course catalog will be offered during the exchange
    student’s chosen term of study and some courses may be full by the time an
    exchange student arrives on campus and registers for courses. Therefore,
    it is highly recommended that prospective exchange students and home
    institution coordinators remain flexible in this regard and prepare a list
    of courses that includes several options which would be acceptable by the
    home institution.  Course Registration : Exchange
    students will register for courses directly with their hosting academic
    department at UIC. In general, course registration can only be completed
    after the exchange student has arrived in Chicago and completed the Immigration
    Check-in with the Office of International Services. OIS will
    communicate directly with incoming exchange students regarding their
    specific plan for course registration.  Additional Considerations :
    While studying at UIC, exchange students should take at minimum 75% of
    their courses in the field of study indicated on their application.
    Students may take additional courses outside their intended field of study
    at the discretion of their home institution. Please see the Maintaining
    Status section of this page for additional course selection
    considerations.     Financial   Preparing for the financial
aspects of the UIC Exchange Program is important. This includes understanding
responsibilities regarding tuition and fee payment, how to view and pay your
UIC student account, and how much money to budget for living expenses while in
Chicago.   Tuition : Exchange students
    pay tuition to their home institution and are not charged UIC tuition
    during their time in the UIC Exchange Program. Please consult your home
    institution coordinator for details on how to pay your tuition bill while
    you are in Chicago.  Fees : Exchange students are
    charged some UIC fees as outlined in the appendix of the Memorandum of
    Understanding (MOU) between the home school and UIC.  For example, most exchange students pay a
    one-time Orientation /Arrival Fee ($149 as of fall 2018) to UIC unless it
    is specifically waived in the MOU.  Student Accounts & Billing :
    Student billing and payment at UIC is handled by University Student
    Financial Services & Cashier Operations. Exchange students can pay for
    applicable fees and CampusCare  health insurance coverage (if
    not waived by deadline) via the USFSCO
    website .   BILLING DISCLAIMER :
All UIC students, including exchange students, are automatically charged
tuition and all fees upon registering for courses. Exchange students will see
this bill shortly after confirming their course registration - don’t panic! OIS
will notify USFSCO to waive tuition and the fees specified by the MOU for each exchange
student. However, there can be a delay between the date USFSCO is notified and
the date the fee waiver is reflected on the exchange student’s account.
Exchange students should be mindful of any payment deadlines and communicate
questions about the student bill to OIS in a timely manner.   Additional Estimated Expenses :
    In addition to tuition paid to the home institution and fees paid to UIC,
    exchange students should plan funding for additional costs such as living
    expenses and books/supplies. Below are estimates of these expenses based
    on living in Chicago and studying at UIC for one year. These are also the
    amounts exchange students must show as evidence of funding to qualify for
    a DS-2019 form.       Estimated Expenses    Undergraduate    Graduate      Living Expenses    $14,450    $16,046      Books    $1,400    $1,400      Orientation    $149    $149      TOTAL for 1 semester exchange    $7,999    $8,797      TOTAL for full year exchange    $15,999    $17,595        Housing   Exchange students may choose to
live on-campus with UIC Housing or off-campus in private accommodation. It is
recommended that students select UIC Housing.  Selecting private off-campus housing could result in unforeseen costs,
unreliable maintenance, difficult commuting and lessened access to university
services.  It is the responsibility of the
exchange student to secure his or her own accommodation as housing is not arranged
by the UIC Exchange Program.   On-Campus Housing : Campus
    Housing provides a variety of convenient, secure, and socially-engaging residence
    halls right on the UIC campus. Exchange students interested in immersing
    themselves in the UIC college experience can visit the Campus Housing website for more
    information on residence hall options, pricing, and application deadlines.  Off-Campus Housing : Exchange
    students interested in living off-campus can find resources on the OIS
    website and the Commuter
    Student Resource Center website .      Health Insurance   Exchange students on a J-1 visa
are required to maintain health insurance for the duration of their stay in the
U.S. The level of coverage must meet requirements set by the U.S. Department of State .   Campus Care : Exchange
    students, like all registered UIC students,  are automatically enrolled in UIC’s student health benefit
    program, CampusCare . CampusCare provides some, but not
    all, of the health insurance coverage required by the U.S. Department of
    State. Exchange students may choose to stay enrolled in CampusCare and purchase
    supplemental health insurance coverage to meet the DOS requirements.
    Alternatively, exchange students can waive CampusCare if they are
    able to present evidence of equal or better health insurance coverage.
    Please note that waiving CampusCare coverage
    and corresponding charges must be done directly with CampusCare and by their deadlines. Presenting evidence of
    health insurance coverage to OIS during Immigration
    Check-In does not waive CampusCare.  Private Health Insurance :
    Exchange students may utilize privately-purchased health insurance
    provided that it meets the requirements set by the U.S. Department of    State . To utilize health insurance purchased in your home country,
    documentation must be available in English and submitted through the CampusCare waiver process and OIS
    Immigration Check-In .     Orientation   The Office of International
Services hosts International Student Orientation at the beginning of each fall
and spring semester and during the summer sessions. Exchange students should
attend the ISO offered at the beginning of their program at UIC and plan their
arrival to UIC accordingly. Please see the OIS website for more
information about International Student Orientation .    Maintaining Status   Exchange students enter the U.S.
on a J-1 visa, and therefore, are responsible for maintaining J-1 status for
the duration of their program. Below are some general tips for maintaining J-1
status, however, exchange students are encouraged to connect
with an OIS Advisor regarding any doubts or concerns. Additionally,
maintaining J-1 status is covered during International
Student Orientation .   Immigration Check-In : Upon
    arrival in Chicago all exchange students must complete an Immigration
    Check-In with OIS . Along with presenting immigration documents,
    exchange students must submit evidence of health insurance coverage that
    is in English and meets the minimum requirements set by the U.S.
    Department of State for the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program.  Enrollment : J-1 exchange
    students must enroll full-time during the UIC Exchange Program. For
    undergraduate students, full-time at UIC is defined as 12 credits or more
    per semester. For graduate students, full-time is 9 credits or more per
    semester. Additionally, J-1 exchange students are limited in their ability
    to enroll in online courses. Please see the OIS website for more
    information about full-time enrollment requirements .  Employment : J-1 visas are
    first and foremost student visas. Therefore, regulations surrounding J-1
    employment are strict and the consequences for violating them can be
    severe. Information
    about J-1 employment can be found on the OIS website. However,
    please consult
    with an OIS Advisor prior to participating in any work or
    training activity, paid or unpaid.   Address Updates : J-1
    exchange students must maintain a current local (U.S.) and permanent
    (international) address at all times. Exchange students should report
    address changes to OIS within ten days.  Travel : J-1 exchange
    students who wish to travel outside the U.S. during their UIC Exchange
    Program should confirm that they have valid immigration documents,
    including an updated DS-2019 travel signature, prior to departure. More
    information about travel and how to update a travel signature can be found
    on the OIS
    website .  Departure : J-1 exchange
    students have a 30 day grace period after the program end date listed on
    their DS-2019 during which they may remain in the U.S. to travel or
    prepare for departure. Work, study, and re-entry to the U.S. are not
    permitted during the 30 day grace period. More information about departure
    procedures, including how to formally notify OIS or your departure, can be
    found on the OIS
    website .     Getting Involved   Cultural exchange is at the
heart of the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program. Participants in the UIC Exchange
Program are encouraged to get involved on-campus so that they can interact with
UIC students, share their home culture and learn about U.S. culture. Below are
just some of the opportunities for involvement available at UIC.   OIS Programs & Events :
    The Office of International Services hosts a variety of cultural and
    social programs throughout the academic year. The majority of these
    programs are free of cost to exchange students and provide an opportunity
    to connect with the broader UIC international community. For a list of
    upcoming OIS programs and events, please see the OIS
    website .  Trade Winds : One of OIS’
    signature programs, Trade Winds, is and intercultural friendship program
    in which international students and U.S. students are placed in small
    groups and encouraged throughout the semester to educate each other about
    their cultures, countries, perspectives and life experiences. Trade Winds
    is a fantastic opportunity for exchange students to build meaningful
    intercultural relationships in their short time at UIC. Learn more on the OIS
    website .  Center for Student Involvement :
    UIC has a vibrant student community and the Center for Student Involvement
    organizes programming for students throughout the year. Check out their website for upcoming events and a list of student organizations to join.  Campus Recreation : Exchange
    students who are interested in athletics can visit the UIC Campus Recreation website for information on their work out facilities, sports clubs, and intramural
    sports leagues and tournaments.    xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"? Skip Nav UICOIS Navigation Menu Home About OIS Students Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Incoming Exchange Students Fulbright Foreign Student and Scholar (Non U.S. Citizens) Faculty, Staff, and Scholars Visitors Departments Programs Life in Illinois Alumni Resources News   Office of International Services 1200 West Harrison Street Chicago, IL 60607-7161 Phone: (312) 996-3121 Email: ois@uic.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright ©  2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Web Privacy Statement Cookie Settings    