https://tobaccofree.uic.edu
tobacco free campus     Home  UIC Campus  Law  Compliance  Questions  Employee Resources         Tobacco-Free Campus      THE UIC CAMPUS  The University of Illinois at Chicago is a tobacco-free campus. The presence of tobacco products at UIC poses a health risk for everyone on campus.  UIC has prohibited smoking indoors and near building entryways since 1995. The Tobacco-Free
    Campus Policy went into effect January 1, 2014. This policy was expanded the followinging year to
    comply with the Smoke-Free Campus Act (110 ILCS 64/1-99) which required all campuses in
    Illinois to institute disciplinary action, fines, and an appeals process for violation of this
    policy.  The Tobacco-Free Campus Policy applies to all forms of tobacco, including but not limited to
    cigarettes, cigars, pipes, water pipes (hookahs), chew, electronic cigarettes, and smokeless
    tobacco products.       LAW     Beginning July 1, 2015, the State of Illinois mandated that smoking be prohibited on
        every campus of a state-supported institution of higher education. This applies to each
        campus, including buildings, grounds, parking lots, and vehicles owned and operated by
        universities; employees; guests; and students.  Each state-supported institution of higher education has the authority to implement the 
        act accordingly and authorize and distribute all policies and regulations necessary for 
        this purpose. This may include, but is not limited to, citations, fines, and disciplinary 
        action.       COMPLIANCE    In compliance with the State of Illinois Smoke-Free Campus Act, 110 ILCS 
    64/1-99, additional "no smoking" signs have been posted around campus and all ashtrays have been 
    removed from university property. The UIC campus has instituted a system of citations and
    fines. The UIC Police Department now has the authority to issue citations and related fines
    for violations of the Tobacco-Free Campus policy.  Fines are issued according to the following schedule:    Violation  Code  Citation amount    First violation  Warning only  $0.00    Second violation  Final warning only  $0.00    Third violation  Fine may be waived with completion of course  $50.00    Fourth  Mandatory fine  $50.00    Fifth  Mandatory fine  $75.00    Sixth  Mandatory fine  $100.00    Individuals who observe someone smoking in a location prohibited by our policy should 
        contact the UIC Police at the non-emergency number, 312.996.2830. Violations must be 
        reported at the time they occur. Staff and faculty violators will be reported to UIC Human
        Resources and/or Faculty Affairs. Students in violation of the policy will be reported
        directly to the Dean of Student Affairs. Repeated violations by an individual may lead to
        disciplinary action.       QUESTIONS     Why did our campus go smoke-free?  By eliminating second-hand smoke, the Chicago campus underscores its commitment to providing
     a healthy learning environment for students and a healthy work environment for faculty and 
     staff.  Establishing a smoke-free campus policy:   Protects people from unwanted and involuntary exposure to tobacco and passive smoke.  Promotes cessation and creates a supportive environment for those who are trying to reduce
        or quit tobacco use.  Creates a cleaner living, learning, and working environment.  Protects the environment from tobacco-related litter.   The campus’ new policy supports and builds upon the state’s Smoke-Free Illinois Act (410 ILC 
    82/) and complies with the Smoke-Free Campus Act (110 ILCS 64/1-99), which required all 
    Illinois campuses to become smoke free as of July 1, 2015.  When did the University of Illinois at Chicago become smoke-free?  The Smoke-Free Campus Policy went into effect January 1, 2014 for the Chicago campus.  On 	
    July 1, 2015 this policy was expanded to comply with the Smoke-Free Campus Act (110 ILCS 
    64/1-99) which required all campuses in Illinois to institute disciplinary action, fines, and 
    an appeals process.  Are there designated smoking areas on campus?  No. Smoking is prohibited on all campus property. Those choosing to smoke must do so at 
    least 15 feet from any property owned or controlled by the campus. Please consult the 
    Smoke-Free Campus map at maps.uic.edu for more information about campus boundaries.  What about basketball games, concerts or other public events?  All events occurring on campus property are covered by the smoke-free policy.  Can people smoke in their own vehicles within the smoke-free campus? What about in 	
    university vehicles?  Yes, you are allowed to smoke in your private vehicles. Smoking in university vehicles has been prohibited for several years and remains so under this policy.  My citation says that my fine can be waived if I complete an online course. How do I do that?  If you received your citation for a third violation of the Smoke-Free Campus policy, you have the option of either paying the fine according to the instructions on the front of the citation or completing UIC's Nicotine 101 course here . This online course must be completed within 72 hours of the issuance of the citation.  I am a student and I received a citation. What are my options?   First two citations: Warning  Third citation: Pay fine or waive by taking an online educational training within 72 hours of the issuance of the citation. Go to: wellnesscenter.uic.edu/smokefree/index.html  Fourth citation: $50.00  Fifth citation: $75.00  Sixth citation plus: $100.00   Student citations may also be referred to the Office of the Dean of Students for disciplinary action through the student conduct process. Students will be notified upon receipt of this smoking citation. Outcomes rendered in the student conduct process are independent of the prescribed consequences listed in this citation.  I am a staff/faculty/visitor and I received a citation.  What are my options?   First two citations: Warning  Third citation: Pay fine or waive by taking an online educational training within 72 hours of the issuance of the citation. Go to: wellnesscenter.uic.edu/smokefree/index.html   Fourth citation: $50.00  Fifth citation: $75.00  Sixth citation plus: $100.00   Staff and faculty citations may be referred to UIC Human Resources for disciplinary action. Staff/faculty will be notified upon receipt of this smoking citation.  How can I appeal this citation?  All student appeals must go through the Dean of Students Office by going to dos.uic.edu and all faculty/staff appeals must go through Human Resources by going to www.hr.uic.edu Appeals must be submitted within 15 calendar days of the violation date and the citation must be paid in full before you may file an official appeal. An appeals board made up of faculty, staff and students will review appeals and other relevant information in making a determination. The appeals board will notify the appellant of their decision within 10 business days.  Who should I contact for additional information about the Illinois Smoke-Free Campus Act?    Visitor Questions  University of Illinois at Chicago Police Department 943 West Maxwell Street Rm. 210 (M/C 278) Chicago, Illinois  60608 (312) 996-2830    Staff/Faculty Questions  University of Illinois at Chicago UIC Human Resources 715 S. Wood Street Suite 109, (M/C 862) Chicago, IL 60612 (312) 996-0840   Student Questions  University of Illinois at Chicago The Wellness Center 750 South Halsted Street Rm. 238 (M/C 894) Chicago, Illinois  60607 (312) 413-2120      EMPLOYEE RESOURCES    Most smokers or tobacco users know they should quit but are not sure how. Research shows that creating a quit-smoking plan may improve your chances of stopping for good. No matter how old you are or how long you’ve smoked, quitting can help you live a longer and healthier life. UIC understands that to have the best chance of quitting and staying a non-smoker, you need to know where to go for help. Below are some helpful resources related to smoking cessation.  Tobacco Treatment Center, Outpatient Care Center  The University of Illinois Hospital and Health Sciences System, Pulmonary and Digestive Clinic sponsors a Tobacco Treatment Center. For more information, contact 312.413.4244. The treatment plan is covered by most insurance plans. Read more at the Tobacco Treatment Center.  The Wellness Center at UIC  The Wellness Center at UIC provides health and wellness information, educational programs and skill-building activities to the UIC community to encourage students, staff and faculty to make healthy choices. Read more at The Wellness Center at UIC.  Illinois Tobacco Quit Line: 1-866-QUIT-YES (1-866-784-8937)  The Department of Public Health and American Lung Association of Illinois, offers a free "quit kit" as well as support via online chat or phone with tobacco-treatment counselors. Read more at The Illinois Tobacco Quit Line.  Become an Ex  This website was developed by a nonprofit organization in partnership with the Mayo Clinic. Free services include tools to create a personalized plan to stop smoking, blogs and online discussions. Read more at becomeanex.org.  Smokefree.gov  The website of the National Cancer Institute, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services offers information on how to quit smoking as well as free services that include a text messaging program and ways to show support for friends and family who are trying to quit. Read more at smokefree.gov.  Respiratory Health Association  Learn more about strategies for quitting smoking and other quit-smoking resources.  All members of the campus community, faculty, staff, students, patients and visitors, share responsibility for respecting and abiding by this policy. Join UIC in ensuring a healthy environment for our campus community and those we support.  “No individual or campus unit may discriminate or retaliate against any person who makes a complaint of a violation of the Act or furnishing information concerning a violation to a person, campus, or governing authority.” Read more at the Respiratory Health Association.          1200 West Harrison St. Chicago, Illinois 60607 312-996-7000     QUICK LINKS  Athletics  Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Job Opportunities  Library  Veterans Affairs  University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System  Acerca de la UIC (en español)      RESOURCES  Academic Calendar  Current Students  Event Calendar  Faculty and Staff  Maps  UIC News  Visit & Directions  Clery Compliance  Nondiscrimination Policy  Title IX: Sexual Misconduct      TOOLS  Blackboard  GoogleApps@UIC  my UIC  Nessie  Outlook for Web  UICalendar  Webmail  Contact the webmaster   Book a Visit  Request Info  Apply Now  Give  Join Alumni Association  Contact Us      Facebook     Twitter     Instagram     YouTube     Tumblr         