https://today.uic.edu/computer-simulations-explore-potential-covid-19-therapeutics
Computer simulations explore potential COVID-19 therapeutics | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                Computer simulations explore potential COVID-19 therapeutics  April 23, 2020   Computational design of ACE2-based peptide inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2. Photo:  Yanxiao Han and Petr Král  SARS-CoV-2, the new coronavirus behind the COVID-19 pandemic,
infects cells by using its spike proteins to attach to proteins present on the
surfaces of certain human cells, also known as ACE2 receptors. Upon binding to
ACE2, the virus fuses with the host cell membrane and gains entry via this
attachment.  Finding inhibitors that block key regions of the spike protein and
keep the virus from infecting cells is the focus of many scientists from around
world.  At the University of Illinois at Chicago, researchers recently published a study in the journal ACS Nano that details findings from computer simulations seeking to identify these inhibitors, which eventually could assist chemists to develop new medicines to combat the coronavirus.  Using a recently published X-ray crystal structure of the
receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2 when it is bound to ACE2, the researchers
were able to identify 15 amino acids from ACE2 that interact directly with the
viral spike protein.  Yanxiao Han, a UIC Ph.D. student in chemistry and first author on the paper, and Petr Král, UIC professor of chemistry, physics, biopharmaceutical sciences and chemical engineering, used computer modeling to design and assess four peptides that mimic the virus-binding domain of the human protein that allows SARS-CoV-2 to enter cells.  Their molecular dynamics simulations revealed a double alpha helix
extracted from ACE2 as a highly stable peptide and potential defender from the
virus, capable of blocking the spike proteins.  “A single alpha helix was not particularly stable,” said Král, senior author of the study. “So, the discovery that a pair of linked self-supporting helices can provide strong and stable binding was very exciting.”  Han and Král hope that simple peptides might do the job of
healing the patients in later stages by slowing down the activity of the virus.  “Such peptides might have limited secondary impact on the
organisms,” Král said. “These are not vaccines but possible therapeutics for
inhalation.”  The peptides still need to be tested in the lab and in patients, but being able to narrow down drug candidates on the computer could help advance this process, according to the researchers.  Han’s work related to the study is supported through the UIC
Graduate College Dean’s Scholar Fellowship.     Contact   Brian Flood 312-996-7681  bflood@uic.edu  twitter.com/bflooduic       Categories   Research , Top Faculty Staff News   Topics COVID-19 , molecular dynamics simulations , peptide inhibitors , SARS-Cov-2 , therapeutics          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     