https://business.uic.edu/graduate-programs/graduate-degrees/master-business-administration
Master of Business Administration | UIC Business | University of Illinois at Chicago                             Skip to the content of this page ,  the main menu , the secondary menu , the site search form , the site home page .        UIC Logo        UIC Business     Search the site     Toggle Menu      Search                  UIC Logo          UIC Business      UIC Business   Main Menu    Undergraduate    Expand Undergraduate menu           Undergrad Admissions    Undergraduate Degrees    UIC Business Scholars    Pre-College Programs    Student Life at UIC Business    Business Career Center    Professional Development         Graduate    Expand Graduate menu           Graduate Admissions    Graduate Degrees    Guaranteed and Preferred Admissions    Graduate Career Services         Doctoral    Expand Doctoral menu           Doctoral Degrees    UIC Doctoral Students         Alumni    Expand Alumni menu           Give to UIC Business    Why I Give    Donor Recognition Society    Student Scholarship Support    Ways to Get Involved    Alumni Leadership Academy    Contact the Office of Advancement         Recruiters    Expand Recruiters menu           Center for Applied Analytics         Faculty/Research    Expand Faculty/Research menu           Faculty    Research    International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)    Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)    UIC Entrepreneurial Support Program    For the Media    Faculty Recruitment          Eyebrow menu    Give Now    Visit Our Blog    Current Students    About Us    UIC menu    UIC.edu    Campus Map       Search                 View Menu  Down arrow icon            Breadcrumbs   UIC Business    Graduate Programs    Graduate Degrees    Master of Business Administration        Master of Business Administration  Accelerate your career with an MBA from the UIC Business Liautaud Graduate School.  An MBA from UIC Business Liautaud Graduate School offers you the flexibility to pursue your MBA in a format that best suits your needs. You’ll earn a degree that is tailored to your specific interests and gain the hard and soft skills that will set you apart. The program is ranked #65 by U.S. News & World Report.       Learn More        Edit icon         Request Information        Calendar icon        Attend An Event        Check icon        Apply Now          MBA Programs  The UIC Business Liautaud Graduate School offers MBA programs designed to support your academic and professional development. With classes offered in the daytime, evenings and on weekends, you can find the option that best fits your needs. Some core courses are also offered online, providing you with additional scheduling flexibility.     Full-Time, Accelerated MBA     Fall start only  On-campus cohort program with daytime classes  Finish in three semesters  Build a strong career network  Concentrations available in Business Analytics, Finance and Marketing       Weekend MBA     Fall start only  Two-year cohort program  Meets on Saturdays  Ideal for working professionals  Concentrations available in Finance and Management       Flexible MBA Program     Fall, Spring or Summer start  Set your own pace (full- or part-time)  Take classes at night or on Saturdays  Finish in as little as 18 months  All concentrations available            Summer 2020 Admission Deadlines       Mar  15  2020        Domestic Applications  Sunday             Fall 2020 Admission Deadlines       Dec  15  2019        Round One: International and Domestic Applications  Sunday          Mar  15  2020        Round Two: International and Domestic Applications  Sunday          Apr  1  2020        Round Three: International Applications  Wednesday          Jul  1  2020        Round Three: Domestic Applications  Wednesday             Spring 2021 Admission Deadlines       Sep  1  2020        International Applications  Tuesday          Nov  1  2020        Domestic Applications  Sunday             Featured Courses     BA 520 Improv and Leadership   Using improvisational theatre techniques taught in workshop exercise of graduating difficulty, this course creates a safe laboratory for students to experiment with the elements of their own executive presence.     MBA 590 Web Analytics   This course will introduce students to the fundamentals of web analytics, including metrics like web traffic and how long customers spend at pages. Students will learn to use Google’s online and offline software tools.     MBA 590 Social Entrepreneurs Leading Change   The aim of this course is to study “the triple bottom line.” Social enterprises utilize the business itself to serve as a vehicle for social change. As business leaders, social entrepreneurs want to improve the common good and solve a social problem.          In Their Own Words        “The Liautaud experience has been phenomenal. As a part of the Accelerated Cohort MBA program, I appreciate the connections I’m developing with my classmates, laying down a solid foundation for my career network.”    Christian Guerrero, American Medical Association | MBA '16          Earning Your MBA   Learn more about our MBA Program.      Credits and Courses   The MBA program is 54 credits in length composed of 26 credits of core courses and 28 credits of electives. Your core courses introduce the fundamental concepts needed to understand the many facets of a complex organization and provide a foundation for further, more in-depth functional business study.  The core curriculum consists of the following seven courses:   Financial Accounting (4 credits)  Corporate Finance (4 credits)  Marketing (4 credits)  Microeconomics (4 credits)  Operations Management (4 credits)  Organizational Behavior (4 credits)  Enterprise Strategy (capstone course, 2 credits)      Tuition   UIC Business is part of a public research university, so tuition and fees vary by residency. Also, because our programs offer flexible options, our tuition varies based on the number of classes you are taking each semester. To calculate your tuition and fees, please visit the Tuition Information page.  Don’t forget, UIC Business offers graduate assistantships, scholarships and partial tuition waivers. Ask an admissions representative about the many options we offer to help you afford your education.          Concentrations     Accounting   Accounting is the language of business. With this concentration, you’ll learn how to maintain the financial health of an organization.  Sample of courses:   Financial Accounting  Management Accounting  Financial Statement Analysis  Taxes and Business Policy      Business Analytics   This concentration trains students in the use of data and models for business decisions, and how to leverage ‘big’ data and analytics for competitive advantage. MBA students with the Business Analytics concentration are prepared to meet demand in one of the most rapidly expanding fields in business.  Sample of courses:   Business Data Mining  Data Visualization  Social Media and Network Analysis  Analytics Strategy and Practice  Statistical Models and Methods for Business Analytics      Economics   Economics gives you an in-depth look at what drives businesses and consumers. This concentration focuses on applied economics with a focus on health, education and urban issues.  Sample of courses:   Managerial Economics  International Economics for Business  Labor Economics  Econometrics      Entrepreneurship   With this concentration, you’ll learn how to evaluate the risks and rewards of a new venture, skills which can be applied to both new and existing businesses.  Sample of courses:   Social Entrepreneurship  Startup Launch  Entrepreneurial Electronic Commerce  Business Models for Technology Ventures      Finance   Students will gain a better understanding of financial assets and how to manage risks and investments.  Sample of courses:   Corporate Finance  Portfolio Analysis  Financial Decision Making  Risk Management      International Business   Get a closer look at the global business environment. If you are looking to work abroad or for a large multinational company, these courses will deepen your understanding of business on a global scale.  Sample of courses:   International Finance  International Management  International Business Operations  Global Innovation Management      Management   This concentration will equip the knowledge to lead people and organizations with an understanding of human resource management, strategic management, leadership, managerial skills and logistics.  Sample of courses:   Competitive Strategy  Human Resource Management  Negotiations  Organizational Design      Management Information Systems   With a concentration in MIS, you’ll learn how to design and manage information and IT systems in ways that have a direct impact on strategy and operational decisions.  Sample of courses:   Information Systems Strategy and Policy  Innovation and Technology Change  Enterprise Information Infrastructure and Security  Audit and Control of Information Systems  Enterprise Application Development      Marketing   Students in this concentration develop a strong understanding of the entire marketing process in business from research and product development to communications planning and measurement.  Sample of courses:   Marketing Communication and Promotional Strategy  Marketing Channels Management  Product Planning  Services Marketing      Operations and Supply-Chain Management   MBA students in this concentration study the strategic management and operation of global supply chains, the flow of goods and services and complex business processes.  Sample of Courses   Supply Chain Management  Global Sourcing and Logistics Managing Service Operations  Quality Control and Lean Process Management  Revenue Management      Real Estate   Combining economics, finance, and urban planning students gain a full perspective of the field of real estate with an emphasis in urban real estate markets using metropolitan Chicago as a working laboratory.  Sample of Courses   Real Estate Finance  Urban Real Estate and Land Economics  Urban Economics  Investments      Self-Directed   If the other concentrations don’t fit the career path you are building, work with an adviser to develop one.          Joint Degrees    Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Accounting  Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Finance  Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Management Information Systems  Master of Business Administration and Doctor of Medicine  Master of Business Administration and Doctor of Pharmacy  Master of Business Administration and Master of Public Health  Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Business Analytics  Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Supply Chain and Operations Management        Study Abroad Programs   Interested in studying outside of the United States? UIC Business offers several opportunities to study abroad.      Doing Business in Brazil   Doing Business in Brazil is a two-week course in Sao Paulo, Brazil, at the Fundacao Getulio Vargas, considered one of the top business schools in South America. This English-language course covers Brazilian and South American business issues, the political and social climate, national culture, consumer marketing and Mercosur. MBA students receive four elective credits for participating in the program.     Know Europe   Know Europe is a four-week course, through the ESC Normandy. Study is organized in Brussels, Belgium; Haarlem, Amsterdam; Paris, Le Havre and Caen, France; and Barcelona, Spain. Professors are drawn from Europe, the United Kingdom and Australia. The program includes meetings with local businesses, field visits to seats of European government and presentations on major aspects of European administration and culture. MBA students receive six elective credits for participating in the program.          Program Faculty      Sudhakar (Sid)
    
    Balachandran  Associate Professor and Director of MBA Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 996-2529     Email:   sidbala@uic.edu      View Profile       Christopher
    
    Barlow  Clinical Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 355-2150     Email:   barlowc@uic.edu      View Profile       Gib
    
    Bassett  Emeritus Professor and Director of the International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)    Phone:   (312) 996-5777     Email:   gib@uic.edu      View Profile       Oleg
    
    Bondarenko  Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-2362     Email:   olegb@uic.edu      View Profile       Shelley
    
    Brickson  Associate Professor    Phone:   (312) 613-0626     Email:   brickson@uic.edu      View Profile       Ranganathan
    
    Chandrasekaran  Professor and Director of Master of Science in Management Information Systems (MSMIS) Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 996-2847     Email:   ranga@uic.edu      View Profile       Hsiu-Lang
    
    Chen  Associate Professor and Director of Master of Science in Finance (MSF) Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 355-1024     Email:   hsiulang@uic.edu      View Profile       Anna
    
    Cui  Associate Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-7326     Email:   ascui@uic.edu      View Profile       Somnath
    
    Das  Professor and Coordinator of Accounting PhD Program    Phone:   (312) 996-4482     Email:   sdas@uic.edu      View Profile       Ellen
    
    Engel  Associate Professor    Phone:   (312) 413-3418     Email:   elleneng@uic.edu      View Profile       David
    
    Gal  Professor and Coordinator of Marketing PhD Program    Phone:   (312) 996-6202     Email:   davidgal@uic.edu      View Profile       Eliane
    
    Karsaklian  Visiting Professor    Email:   ekarsa2@uic.edu      View Profile       Michael
    
    Kirschenheiter  Professor and Department Head    Phone:   (312) 996-2284     Email:   mkirsche@uic.edu      View Profile       Matt
    
    Liotine  Clinical Associate Professor and Director of Master of Science in Supply Chain and Operations Management (MSSCOM) Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 413-2360     Email:   mliotine@uic.edu      View Profile       Alan
    
    Malter  Associate Professor and Director of Master of Science in Marketing (MSM) Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 413-4142     Email:   amalter@uic.edu      View Profile       Abagail
    
    McWilliams  Professor and Associate Dean of BBA Programs    Phone:   (312) 996-5201     Email:   abby@uic.edu      View Profile       John
    
    Miller  Clinical Assistant Professor and Director of CME Market Training Lab    Phone:   (312) 355-0316     Email:   jpmill@uic.edu      View Profile       Kim
    
    Moon  Lecturer    Phone:   (312) 413-9362     Email:   kimmoon@uic.edu      View Profile       Selva
    
    Nadarajah  Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 355-2774     Email:   selvan@uic.edu      View Profile       Unsal
    
    Ozdogru  Clinical Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-9260     Email:   uozdogru@uic.edu      View Profile       Susan
    
    Perkins  Associate Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-3794     Email:   susanp@uic.edu      View Profile       Michael
    
    Popowits  Senior Lecturer and Director of Student Professional Development    Phone:   (312) 413-0998     Email:   popowits@uic.edu      View Profile       Ram
    
    Ramakrishnan  Professor and Director of Master of Science in Accounting (MSA) Graduate Studies    Phone:   (312) 996-3270     Email:   rramakri@uic.edu      View Profile       Steve
    
    Sauerwald  Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-4054     Email:   ssauerw@uic.edu      View Profile       George
    
    Scully  Clinical Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 355-4238     Email:   gscully@uic.edu      View Profile       Mark
    
    Shanley  Professor and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs    Phone:   (312) 996-6229     Email:   mshanley@uic.edu      View Profile       John
    
    Sparks  Clinical Assistant Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-8368     Email:   jspark4@uic.edu      View Profile       Ali
    
    Tafti  Associate Professor    Phone:   (201) 424-6276     Email:   atafti@uic.edu      View Profile       J Christopher
    
    Westland  Professor    Phone:   (312) 996-2323     Email:   westland@uic.edu      View Profile           Frequently Asked Questions     Which semesters can I start?         Which semesters can I start?   The Weekend MBA Program and the Accelerated MBA start in the fall semester only. Students in the flexible program can start in the summer, fall or spring.        What is the difference between online courses and traditional on-campus courses?         What is the difference between online courses and traditional on-campus courses?   Online courses are often very different than traditional on-campus courses in terms of how the material is presented, the nature of the interaction among class members and the overall learning experience. However, the course load is at the same level as the face-to-face version; the only amount of time saved is your commute time to and from campus. Our online courses use the Blackboard software. Select courses are offered online, and offerings vary each semester.        Does UIC offer an Online MBA?         Does UIC offer an Online MBA?   UIC does not offer an exclusively online MBA degree. Online coursework is offered for five of the 14 courses required to complete an MBA (remaining courses typically have evening and weekend offering times to make it convenient for working professionals). Our campus-based MBA delivers deep and interactive class discussions that encourage critical thinking and problem solving, and promotes networking, team projects and campus involvement.        Should I apply even though I do not have any work experience?         Should I apply even though I do not have any work experience?   MBA applicants are expected to have at least two years of business related work experience after the completion of a 4-year bachelor’s degree. Historically, our typical admitted student had more than this level of experience prior to applying to the UIC Business MBA program.        How do I apply for a joint degree program?         How do I apply for a joint degree program?   Applicants may apply to a joint degree program during the initial application process, or they may apply to their second program upon gaining admission and enrolling in their first program.  First time applicants to UIC wishing to enroll in a joint degree program are required to apply separately to both programs, making sure to follow the application procedures/requirements for each program.  Current UIC graduate students interested in applying to a joint degree program should work closely with academic advisers in both programs and visit Business Connnect for additional instruction.        Do I need an undergraduate degree in business to be accepted into the program?         Do I need an undergraduate degree in business to be accepted into the program?   An undergraduate degree in business administration is not required. In fact, our Accelerated MBA Program is designed specifically for those with an undergraduate background in a non-business field. Approximately 50% of our student body does not have an undergraduate business background. We do recommend that students have had a class in statistics. If they have not, they can take one during their first semester.        Can I take courses as a non-degree seeking student?         Can I take courses as a non-degree seeking student?   You may be admitted to the Liautaud MBA Program on a non-degree basis only in the following two cases:  1. If you have already completed an MBA or other approved management degree from an AACSB accredited institution and wish to pursue further course work, you may enroll in MBA classes on a space-available basis as long as you maintain good academic standing. The application for admission and proof of MBA degree (a photocopy of your transcript or diploma showing a completed MBA degree) must be submitted by the application deadline for the desired term of study.  2. If you are currently enrolled in an MBA program at another AACSB institution and wish to take courses that will be accepted by your university as transfer courses, you may enroll in MBA courses to the extent approved by your MBA program and by the MBA Program. The MBA application for admission, application fee, proof of baccalaureate degree and letter from the director of your MBA program indicating that you are in good academic standing and list the courses approved to be transferred must be submitted by the application deadline for the desired term of study. You may also be asked by the admissions committee to provide additional information regarding your academic credentials.                Graduate    Back to main content           Graduate Admissions    Graduate Degrees     Master of Business Administration    Master of Science in Accounting    Master of Science in Business Analytics    Master of Science in Finance    Master of Science in Management Information Systems    Master of Science in Marketing    Master of Science in Supply Chain and Operations Management      Guaranteed and Preferred Admissions    Graduate Career Services                   UIC Logo         College Of  Business  Administration           Quick Links    About Us    Media    Events    News    Corporate MBA Programs at UIC    Give to UIC Business      External Links    Visit Our Blog    UIC.edu    Visit Campus    Current Students    Phone Book    Privacy Notice        Contact Us    Contact Us         Contact   601 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607  Phone: (312) 996-2700  uicbusiness@uic.edu        Social Media Accounts    Facebook    Twitter    Instagram    YouTube                      UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UIC Safe Mobile App  UIC Today  UI Health  Veterans Affairs        Powered by Red 2.38.0  © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield      Cookie Settings                   