https://today.uic.edu/uic-student-honored-as-newman-civic-fellow
UIC student honored as Newman Civic Fellow | UIC Today      Skip to main content      Updated: May 08, 2020 at 12:39 PM      UIC Logo        Today        Submit        Campus News  Academics & Research  Events  Resources   Current Student Resources  Faculty & Staff Resources  Photography/Video  Social Media Account Request Form  UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices    COVID-19   Frequently Asked Questions  What you need to know about COVID-19  Support for the UIC community (COVID-19)  Teaching, learning and working resources  In the News: COVID-19    Contact   Communicating On Campus  Sending Announcements / DDDH  UIC Social Media Directory                                UIC student honored as Newman Civic Fellow  March 9, 2020   Wasan Kumar, a third-year UIC Honors College student majoring in neuroscience and minoring in Global Asian studies. Photo: Amod Mahadik  University of Illinois at Chicago student Wasan Kumar believes
that everyone should have an equal opportunity to live a healthy life, but his
research and community outreach have made it clear that where a person resides
may prevent that possibility.  As part of West Side United and Rush University Medical Center, he has been implementing a program to identify patients with social determinant of health needs and connecting them with the relevant resources. At UI Health, he has been studying contextualized care errors, which occur when physicians overlook crucial environmental or social factors when making medical decisions.  “These experiences taught me how various social and environmental
factors can impact an individual’s health, but also how the proper allocation
of resources and power can mitigate these effects,” said Kumar, a junior in
neuroscience in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.  Based on his demonstrated commitment to finding solutions for
challenges facing communities, Kumar has earned an honor from Campus Compact, a
national nonprofit coalition of more than 1,000 colleges and universities,
which named him among 290 students nationwide to its 2020-2021 Newman Civic
Fellowship cohort.  UIC Chancellor Michael
Amiridis nominated Kumar for the fellowship, which provides a
variety of learning and networking opportunities, including a national
conference of Newman Civic Fellows. It also offers fellows with pathways to apply for
exclusive scholarship and post-graduate opportunities.  The native of Skokie, Illinois, serves as a health educator and leadership council member for UIC’s chapter of the Peer Health Exchange, a nonprofit organization that teaches health education to first-year high school students in Chicago Public Schools. He also has been involved with health policy work as an intern in the office of state Rep. Theresa Mah.  “This award will significantly advance my potential as a public service changemaker and shows me that I’m making an impact,” said Kumar, a member of the UIC Honors College. “I owe a huge thanks to my mentors in the Global Asian studies and public policy programs here at UIC, as well as Representative Mah, Dr. David Ansell and Dr. Andre Kajdacsy-Balla for their constant support.”  Kumar, who last year earned a prestigious Goldwater scholarship based on his academic achievements in the field of science, has studied the effects of heavy metals on cardiovascular disease as part of a research team in the UIC College of Medicine’s department of pathology.  He has been a frequent presenter at conferences and his undergraduate
research has been backed by grants from the Liberal Arts and Sciences
Undergraduate Research Initiative and the Honors College. Kumar’s other
university honors include the Chancellor’s Service and Leadership Award and the
Maurice Prize, an undergraduate innovation competition.  Kumar also is minoring in Global Asian studies at UIC, where he participates in civic and health matters involving the South Asian community and serves as president of the Indian Students Association.  In a quest for a career as a physician-scientist
devoted to improving public health, his post-undergraduate plans are to earn a
medical degree with a focus in molecular pathology and a Ph.D. in epidemiology.  “I want to develop innovative
nationwide policies that reduce the impact of the structural inequities that
determine health,” said Kumar, a 2017 graduate of the Illinois Math and Science
Academy.  “The stories of this year’s Newman
Civic Fellows make clear that they are committed to finding solutions to
pressing problems in their communities and beyond. That is what Campus Compact
is about, and it’s what our country and our world desperately need,” said
Andrew Seligsohn, president of Campus Compact.  The Newman Civic Fellowship
program, which is named for the late Campus Compact co-founder Frank Newman, is
supported by KPMG Foundation and Newman’s Own Foundation.     Contact   Brian Flood 312-996-7681  bflood@uic.edu  twitter.com/bflooduic       Categories   Students , Top Faculty Staff News , Top Student News   Topics civic engagement , College of Liberal Arts and Sciences , fellowship , Honors College , Newman Civic Fellowship          UIC Logo        Today      Contact  Office of Public and Government Affairs 601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607  uictoday@uic.edu   Social Media Accounts               For the Media  Experts Guide  Submit Announcements  Submit an Event  Subscribe to UIC Today           UIC.edu links   UIC.edu  Academic Calendar  Athletics  Campus Directory  Disability Resources  Emergency Information  Event Calendar  Job Openings  Library  Maps  UI Health  Veterans Affairs           © 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  Privacy Statement    Campuses   University of Illinois System  Urbana-Champaign  Springfield     